It is truth universally acknowledged, that single man in possession
of good fortune, must be in want of wife.

However little known the feelings or views of such man may be on his
first entering neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds
of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful
property of some one or other of their daughters.

"My dear Mr. —," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that
— — is let at last?"

"But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. — has just been here, and she
told me all about it."

"Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. — says that — is taken
by young man of large fortune from the north of —; that he came
down on — in chaise and four to see the place, and was so much
delighted with it that he agreed with Mr. — immediately; that he is
to take possession before —, and some of his servants are to be
in the house by the end of next week."

"Oh! single, my dear, to be sure! single man of large fortune; four
or five thousand year. What fine thing for our girls!"

"My dear Mr. —," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome! You
must know that am thinking of his marrying one of them."

"—sign! nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he
_may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as
soon as he comes."

see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send
them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are
as handsome as any of them, Mr. — might like you the best of the
party."

"My dear, you flatter me. certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but
do not pretend to be any thing extraordinary now. When woman has
five grown up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own
beauty."

"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. — when he comes into
the neighbourhood."

"But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would
be for one of them. — — and — — are determined to go,
merely on that account, for in general you know they visit no new
comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit
him, if you do not."

"You are over scrupulous surely. dare say Mr. — will be very
glad to see you; and will send few lines by you to assure him of my
hearty consent to his marrying which ever he chuses of the girls; though
must throw in good word for my little —."

desire you will do no such thing. — is not bit better than the
others; and am sure she is not half so handsome as —, nor half so
good humoured as —. But you are always giving _her_ the
preference."

"They have none of them much to recommend them," replied he; "they are
all silly and ignorant like other girls; but — has something more of
quickness than her sisters."

"Mr. —, how can you abuse your own children in such way? You take
delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves."

"You mistake me, my dear. have high respect for your nerves. They
are my old friends. have heard you mention them with consideration
these twenty years at least."

"But hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four
thousand year come into the neighbourhood."

"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come since you will not
visit them."

"—pend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, will visit them
all."

Mr. — was so odd mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three and twenty years had
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. _Her_ mind
was less difficult to develope. She was woman of mean understanding,
little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented she
fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her
daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.

Mr. — was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. —. He
had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his
wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was
paid, she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following
manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming hat, he
suddenly addressed her with,

"We are not in way to know _what_ Mr. — likes," said her mother
resentfully, "since we are not to visit."

"But you forget, mama," said —, "that we shall meet him at the
assemblies, and that Mrs. — has promised to introduce him."

do not believe Mrs. — will do any such thing. She has two nieces
of her own. She is selfish, hypocritical woman, and have no opinion
of her."

"No more have said Mr. —; "and am glad to find that you do
not depend on her serving you."

Mrs. — deigned not to make any reply; but unable to contain
herself, began scolding one of her daughters.

"Don't keep coughing so, —, for heaven's sake! Have little
compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces."

"— has no discretion in her coughs," said her father; "she times
them ill."

"Aye, so it is," cried her mother, "and Mrs. — does not come back
till the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him,
for she will not know him herself."

"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce
Mr. — to _her_."

"Impossible, Mr. —, impossible, when am not acquainted with him
myself; how can you be so teazing?"

honour your circumspection. fortnight's acquaintance is certainly
very little. One cannot know what man really is by the end of
fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after
all, Mrs. — and her nieces must stand their chance; and therefore, as
she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, will
take it on myself."

The girls stared at their father. Mrs. — said only, "—,
nonsense!"

"What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?" cried he. "Do
you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on
them, as nonsense? cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you,
—? for you are young lady of deep reflection know, and read great
books, and make extracts."

"While — is adjusting her ideas," he continued, "let us return to Mr.
—."

am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me so before? If
had known as much this morning, certainly would not have called on
him. It is very unlucky; but as have actually paid the visit, we
cannot escape the acquaintance now."

The astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished; that of Mrs.
— perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy
was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
while.

"How good it was in you, my dear Mr. —! But knew should
persuade you at last. was sure you loved your girls too well to
neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased am! and it is such
good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said
word about it till now."

"Now, —, you may cough as much as you chuse," said Mr. —; and,
as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.

"What an excellent father you have, girls," said she, when the door was
shut. do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness;
or me either, for that matter. At our time of life, it is not so
pleasant can tell you, to be making new acquaintance every day; but
for your sakes, we would do any thing. —, my love, though you _are_
the youngest, dare say Mr. — will dance with you at the next
ball."

"Oh!" said — stoutly, am not afraid; for though _am_ the
youngest, the tallest."

The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would
return Mr. —'s visit, and determining when they should ask him to
dinner.

Not all that Mrs. —, however, with the assistance of her five
daughters, could ask on the subject was sufficient to draw from her
husband any satisfactory description of Mr. —. They attacked him
in various ways; with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and
distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all; and they were at
last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour
— —. Her report was highly favourable. — — had been
delighted with him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
agreeable, and to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly
with large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of
dancing was certain step towards falling in love; and very lively
hopes of Mr. —'s heart were entertained.

"If can but see one of my daughters happily settled at —,"
said Mrs. — to her husband, "and all the others equally well
married, shall have nothing to wish for."

In few days Mr. — returned Mr. —'s visit, and sat about ten
minutes with him in his library. He had entertained hopes of being
admitted to sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard
much; but he saw only the father. The ladies were somewhat more
fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper
window, that he wore blue coat and rode black horse.

An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already had
Mrs. — planned the courses that were to do credit to her
housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. —
was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to
accept the honour of their invitation, Mrs. — was quite
disconcerted. She could not imagine what business he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in —; and she began to fear that
he might be always flying about from one place to another, and never
settled at — as he ought to be. — — quieted her fears
little by starting the idea of his being gone to — only to get
large party for the ball; and report soon followed that Mr. —
was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly.
The girls grieved over such number of ladies; but were comforted the
day before the ball by hearing, that instead of twelve, he had brought
only six with him from —, his five sisters and cousin. — when
the party entered the assembly room, it consisted of only five
altogether; Mr. —, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and
another young man.

Mr. — was good looking and gentleman-like; he had pleasant
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine women,
with an air of decided fashion. His Mr. —, merely
looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. — soon drew the attention
of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien; and
the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after
his entrance, of his having ten thousand year. The gentlemen
pronounced him to be fine figure of man, the ladies declared he was
much handsomer than Mr. —, and he was looked at with great
admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave disgust
which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be
proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his
large estate in — could then save him from having most
forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared
with his friend.

Mr. — had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
people in the room; he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance,
was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one
himself at —. Such amiable qualities must speak for
themselves. What contrast between him and his friend! Mr. — danced
only once with Mrs. — and once with — —, declined being
introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in
walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in
the world, and every body hoped that he would never come there again.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. —, whose dislike of
his general behaviour, was sharpened into particular resentment, by his
having slighted one of her daughters.

— — had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit
down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. — had been
standing near enough for her to overhear conversation between him and
Mr. —, who came from the dance for few minutes, to press his
friend to join it.

"Come, —," said he, must have you dance. hate to see you
standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better
dance."

certainly shall not. You know how detest it, unless am
particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it
would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not
another woman in the room, whom it would not be punishment to me to
stand up with."

would not be so fastidious as you are," cried —, "for
kingdom! Upon my honour, never met with so many pleasant girls in my
life, as have this evening; and there are several of them you see
uncommonly pretty."

"_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room," said Mr.
—, looking at the eldest — —.

"Oh! she is the most beautiful creature ever beheld! But there is one
of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and
dare say, very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you."

"Which do you mean?" and turning round, he looked for moment at
—, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said,
"— is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and am in no
humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her
smiles, for you are wasting your time with me."

Mr. — followed his advice. Mr. — walked off; and —
remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. She told the story
however with great spirit among her friends; for she had lively,
playful disposition, which delighted in any thing ridiculous.

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs.
— had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the —
party. Mr. — had danced with her twice, and she had been
distinguished by his sisters. — was as much gratified by this, as her
mother could be, though in quieter way. — felt —'s
pleasure. — had heard herself mentioned to — — as the most
accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and — and — had been
fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they
had yet learnt to care for at ball. They returned therefore in good
spirits to —, the village where they lived, and of which they
were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. — still up. With
book he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had
good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised
such splendid expectations. He had rather hoped that all his wife's
views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he
had very different story to hear.

"Oh! my dear Mr. —," as she entered the room, "we have had most
delightful evening, most excellent ball. wish you had been there.
— was so admired, nothing could be like it. Every body said how well
she looked; and Mr. — thought her quite beautiful, and danced with
her twice. Only think of _that_ my dear; he actually danced with her
twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked second
time. First of all, he asked — —. was so vexed to see him stand
up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all: indeed, nobody
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with — as she was going
down the dance. So, he enquired who she was, and got introduced, and
asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with —
—, and the two fourth with — —, and the two fifth with —
again, and the two sixth with —, and the —----"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried her husband impatiently,
"he would not have danced half so much! For —'s sake, say no more of
his partners. Oh! that he had sprained his ancle in the first dance!"

"Oh! my dear," continued Mrs. —, am quite delighted with him. He
is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women. never
in my life saw any thing more elegant than their dresses. dare say the
lace upon Mrs. —'s gown----"

Here she was interrupted again. Mr. — protested against any
description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another branch
of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some
exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. —.

"But can assure you," she added, "that — does not lose much by not
suiting _his_ fancy; for he is most disagreeable, horrid man, not at
all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that there was no enduring
him! He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very
great! Not handsome enough to dance with! wish you had been there, my
dear, to have given him one of your set downs. quite detest the man."

When — and — were alone, the former, who had been cautious in
her praise of Mr. — before, expressed to her sister how very much
she admired him.

"He is just what young man ought to be," said she, "sensible, good
humoured, lively; and never saw such happy much ease,
with such perfect good breeding!"

"He is also handsome," replied —, "which young man ought
likewise to be, if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete."

was very much flattered by his asking me to dance second time.
did not expect such compliment."

"Did not you? did for you. But that is one great difference between
us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What
could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help
seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in
the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is
very agreeable, and give you leave to like him. You have liked many
stupider person."

"Oh! you are great deal too apt you know, to like people in general.
You never see fault in any body. All the world are good and agreeable
in your eyes. never heard you speak ill of human being in my life."

would wish not to be hasty in censuring any one; but always speak
what think."

know you do; and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_
good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of
others! Affectation of candour is common meets it every
where. But to be candid without ostentation or take the good
of every body's character and make it still better, and say nothing of
the to you alone. — so, you like this man's sisters too,
do you? Their manners are not equal to his."

"Certainly not; at first. But they are very pleasing women when you
converse with them. — — is to live with her brother and keep
his house; and am much mistaken if we shall not find very charming
neighbour in her."

— listened in silence, but was not convinced; their behaviour at
the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more
quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister, and
with judgment too unassailed by any attention to herself, she was very
little disposed to approve them. They were in fact very fine ladies; not
deficient in good humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of
being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited. They were
rather handsome, had been educated in one of the first private
seminaries in town, had fortune of twenty thousand pounds, were in the
habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people
of rank; and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of
themselves, and meanly of others. They were of respectable family in
the north of —; circumstance more deeply impressed on their
memories than that their brother's fortune and their own had been
acquired by trade.

Mr. — inherited property to the amount of nearly an hundred
thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate,
but did not live to do — intended it likewise, and
sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was now provided with
good house and the liberty of manor, it was doubtful to many of those
who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the
remainder of his days at —, and leave the next generation to
purchase.

His sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own; but
though he was now established only as tenant, — — was by no
means unwilling to preside at his table, nor was Mrs. —, who had
married man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider
his house as her home when it suited her. Mr. — had not been of
age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation to
look at — —. He did look at it and into it for half an
hour, was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied
with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.

Between him and — there was very steady friendship, in spite of
great opposition of was endeared to — by the
easiness, openness, ductility of his temper, though no disposition could
offer greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never
appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of —'s regard — had the
firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In
understanding — was the superior. — was by no means deficient,
but — was clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and
fastidious, and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In
that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. — was sure of
being liked wherever he appeared, — was continually giving offence.

The manner in which they spoke of the — assembly was sufficiently
characteristic. — had never met with pleasanter people or prettier
girls in his life; every body had been most kind and attentive to him,
there had been no formality, no stiffness, he had soon felt acquainted
with all the room; and as to — —, he could not conceive an angel
more beautiful. —, on the contrary, had seen collection of people
in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had
felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or
pleasure. — — he acknowledged to be pretty, but she smiled too
much.

Mrs. — and her sister allowed it to be still they admired
her and liked her, and pronounced her to be sweet girl, and one whom
they should not object to know more of. — — was therefore
established as sweet girl, and their brother felt authorised by such
commendation to think of her as he chose.

Within short walk of — lived family with whom the —
were particularly intimate. — — — had been formerly in trade
in —, where he had made tolerable fortune and risen to the
honour of knighthood by an address to the —, during his mayoralty.
The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly. It had given him
disgust to his business and to his residence in small market town; and
quitting them both, he had removed with his family to house about
mile from —, denominated from that period — —, where he
could think with pleasure of his own importance, and unshackled by
business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world. For
though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the
contrary, he was all attention to every body. By nature inoffensive,
friendly and obliging, his presentation at —. James's had made him
courteous.

— — was very good kind of woman, not too clever to be
valuable neighbour to Mrs. —.--— had several children. The
eldest of them, sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven,
was —'s intimate friend.

That the — — and the — — should meet to talk over
ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly
brought the former to — to hear and to communicate.

"_You_ began the evening well, —," said Mrs. — with civil
self-command to — —. "_You_ were Mr. —'s first choice."

"Oh!--you mean —, he danced with her twice. To be
sure that _did_ seem as if he admired rather believe he
heard something about hardly know
about Mr. —."

"Perhaps you mean what overheard between him and Mr. —; did not
mention it to you? Mr. —'s asking him how he liked our —
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were great many pretty
women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest? and his
answering immediately to the last the eldest — —
beyond doubt, there cannot be two opinions on that point."

"Upon my that was very decided does seem as
however, it may all come to nothing you know."

"_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, —," said
—. "Mr. — is not so well worth listening to as his friend,
is —!--to be only just _tolerable_."

beg you would not put it into —'s head to be vexed by his
ill-treatment; for he is such disagreeable man that it would be quite
misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. — told me last night that he
sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips."

"Are you quite sure, —'am?--is not there little mistake?" said
—.--"I certainly saw Mr. — speaking to her."

"Aye--because she asked him at last how he liked —, and he
could not help answering she said he seemed very angry at
being spoke to."

"— — told me," said —, "that he never speaks much unless
among his intimate acquaintance. With _them_ he is remarkably
agreeable."

do not believe word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
agreeable he would have talked to Mrs. —. But can guess how it was;
every body says that he is ate up with pride, and dare say he had
heard somehow that Mrs. — does not keep carriage, and had come to
the ball in hack chaise."

do not mind his not talking to Mrs. —," said — —, "but
wish he had danced with —."

"Another time, —," said her mother, would not dance with _him_,
if were you."

"His pride," said — —, "does not offend _me_ so much as pride
often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so
very fine young man, with family, fortune, every thing in his favour,
should think highly of himself. If may so express it, he has _right_
to be proud."

"That is very true," replied —, "and could easily forgive
_his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_."

"Pride," observed —, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
reflections, "is very common failing believe. By all that have
ever read, am convinced that it is very common indeed, that human
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
who do not cherish feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different
things, though the words are often used synonimously. person may be
proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of
ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us."

"If were as rich as Mr. —," cried young — who came with his
sisters, should not care how proud was. would keep pack of
foxhounds, and drink bottle of wine every day."

"Then you would drink great deal more than you ought," said Mrs.
—; "and if were to see you at it should take away your bottle
directly."

The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she
would, and the argument ended only with the visit.

The ladies of — soon waited on those of —. The visit
was returned in due form. — —'s pleasing manners grew on the
good will of Mrs. — and — —; and though the mother was
found to be intolerable and the younger sisters not worth speaking to,
wish of being better acquainted with _them_, was expressed towards the
two eldest. By — this attention was received with the greatest
pleasure; but — still saw superciliousness in their treatment of
every body, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them;
though their kindness to —, such as it was, had value as arising in
all probability from the influence of their brother's admiration. It was
generally evident whenever they met, that he _did_ admire her; and to
_her_ it was equally evident that — was yielding to the preference
which she had begun to entertain for him from the first, and was in
way to be very much in love; but she considered with pleasure that it
was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since —
united with great strength of feeling, composure of temper and
uniform cheerfulness of manner, which would guard her from the
suspicions of the impertinent. She mentioned this to her friend —
—.

"It may perhaps be pleasant," replied —, "to be able to impose
on the public in such case; but it is sometimes disadvantage to be
so very guarded. If woman conceals her affection with the same skill
from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and
it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the
dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every
attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all
_begin_ slight preference is natural enough; but there are
very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without
encouragement. In nine cases out of ten, woman had better shew _more_
affection than she feels. — likes your sister undoubtedly; but he
may never do more than like her, if she does not help him on."

"But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow. If can
perceive her regard for him, he must be simpleton indeed not to
discover it too."

"But if woman is partial to man, and does not endeavour to conceal
it, he must find it out."

"Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her. But though — and —
meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and as they
always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that
every moment should be employed in conversing together. — should
therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his
attention. When she is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling
in love as much as she chuses."

"Your plan is good one," replied —, "where nothing is in
question but the desire of being well married; and if were determined
to get rich husband, or any husband, dare say should adopt it. But
these are not —'s feelings; she is not acting by design. As yet, she
cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard, nor of its
reasonableness. She has known him only fortnight. She danced four
dances with him at —; she saw him one morning at his own house,
and has since dined in company with him four times. This is not quite
enough to make her understand his character."

"Not as you represent it. Had she merely _dined_ with him, she might
only have discovered whether he had good appetite; but you must
remember that four evenings have been also spent four
evenings may do great deal."

"Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both
like —-un better than —; but with respect to any other
leading characteristic, do not imagine that much has been unfolded."

"Well," said —, wish — success with all my heart; and if
she were married to him to-morrow, should think she had as good
chance of happiness, as if she were to be studying his character for
twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely matter of chance. If
the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or
ever so similar before-hand, it does not advance their felicity in the
least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to
have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as
possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your
life."

"You make me laugh, —; but it is not sound. You know it is not
sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself."

Occupied in observing Mr. —'s attentions to her sister, —
was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some
interest in the eyes of his friend. Mr. — had at first scarcely
allowed her to be pretty; he had looked at her without admiration at the
ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise. But no
sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she had
hardly good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes. To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. Though he had
detected with critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry
in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and
pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those
of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness. Of
this she was perfectly her he was only the man who made
himself agreeable no where, and who had not thought her handsome enough
to dance with.

He began to wish to know more of her, and as step towards conversing
with her himself, attended to her conversation with others. His doing so
drew her notice. It was at — — —'s, where large party were
assembled.

"What does Mr. — mean," said she to —, "by listening to my
conversation with — —?"

"But if he does it any more shall certainly let him know that see
what he is about. He has very satirical eye, and if do not begin by
being impertinent myself, shall soon grow afraid of him."

On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have
any intention of speaking, — — defied her friend to mention such
subject to him, which immediately provoking — to do it, she
turned to him and said,

"Did not you think, Mr. —, that expressed myself uncommonly well
just now, when was teazing — — to give us ball at
—?"

"With great it is subject which always makes lady
energetic."

"It will be _her_ turn soon to be teazed," said — —. am going
to open the instrument, —, and you know what follows."

"You are very strange creature by way of wanting me
to play and sing before any body and every my vanity had taken
musical turn, you would have been invaluable, but as it is, would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers." On — —'s persevering, however,
she added, "— well; if it must be so, it must." — gravely glancing
at Mr. —, "— is fine old saying, which every body here is of
course familiar your breath to cool your
shall keep mine to swell my song."

Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After song
or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she
would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her
sister —, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in
the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always
impatient for display.

— had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given her
application, it had given her likewise pedantic air and conceited
manner, which would have injured higher degree of excellence than she
had reached. —, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with
much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and —, at the
end of long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by
— and — airs, at the request of her younger sisters, who with
some of the — and two or three officers joined eagerly in dancing
at one end of the room.

Mr. — stood near them in silent indignation at such mode of
passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and was too
much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that — — —
was his neighbour, till — — thus began.

"What charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. —!--—
is nothing like dancing after consider it as one of the first
refinements of polished societies."

"Certainly, —;--and it has the advantage also of being in vogue
amongst the less polished societies of the savage can
dance."

— — only smiled. "Your friend performs delightfully;" he
continued after pause, on seeing — join the doubt
not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. —."

"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight. Do
you often dance at —. James's?"

had once some thoughts of fixing in town am fond of
superior society; but did not feel quite certain that the air of
— would agree with — —."

He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not disposed to
make any; and — at that instant moving towards them, he was
struck with the notion of doing very gallant thing, and called out to
her,

"My dear — —, why are not you —, you must allow
me to present this young lady to you as very desirable
cannot refuse to dance, am sure, when so much beauty is before you."
— taking her hand, he would have given it to Mr. —, who, though
extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, when she instantly
drew back, and said with some discomposure to — —,

"Indeed, —, have not the least intention of entreat you
not to suppose that moved this way in order to beg for partner."

Mr. — with grave propriety requested to be allowed the honour of her
hand; but in vain. — was determined; nor did — — at all
shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.

"You excel so much in the dance, — —, that it is cruel to deny me
the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the
amusement in general, he can have no objection, am sure, to oblige us
for one half hour."

"He is considering the inducement, my dear — —, we
cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such
partner?"

— looked archly, and turned away. Her resistance had not
injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some
complacency, when thus accosted by — —,

"You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings
in this such society; and indeed am quite of your opinion.
was never more annoyed! The insipidity and yet the noise; the
nothingness and yet the self-importance of all these would
give to hear your strictures on them!"

"Your conjecture is totally wrong, assure you. My mind was more
agreeably engaged. have been meditating on the very great pleasure
which pair of fine eyes in the face of pretty woman can bestow."

— — immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he
would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
Mr. — replied with great intrepidity,

"— — —!" repeated — —. am all astonishment.
How long has she been such pray when am to wish you
joy?"

"That is exactly the question which expected you to ask. lady's
imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love
to matrimony in moment. knew you would be wishing me joy."

"Nay, if you are so serious about it, shall consider the matter as
absolutely settled. You will have charming indeed, and
of course she will be always at — with you."

He listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to
entertain herself in this manner, and as his composure convinced her
that all was safe, her wit flowed long.

Mr. —'s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two
thousand year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed in
default of heirs male, on distant relation; and their mother's
fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply
the deficiency of his. Her father had been an attorney in —, and
had left her four thousand pounds.

She had sister married to Mr. —, who had been clerk to their
father, and succeeded him in the business, and brother settled in
— in respectable line of trade.

The village of — was only one mile from —; most
convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted
thither three or four times week, to pay their duty to their aunt and
to milliner's shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family,
— and —, were particularly frequent in these attentions;
their minds were more vacant than their sisters', and when nothing
better offered, walk to — was necessary to amuse their morning
hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news
the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some
from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with
news and happiness by the recent arrival of militia regiment in the
neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and — was the
head quarters.

Their visits to Mrs. — were now productive of the most interesting
intelligence. Every day added something to their knowledge of the
officers' names and connections. Their lodgings were not long secret,
and at length they began to know the officers themselves. Mr. —
visited them all, and this opened to his nieces source of felicity
unknown before. They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr.
—'s large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their
mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of
an ensign.

After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr.
— coolly observed,

"From all that can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two
of the silliest girls in the country. have suspected it some time, but
am now convinced."

— was disconcerted, and made no answer; but —, with perfect
indifference, continued to express her admiration of — —, and
her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the
next morning to —.

am astonished, my dear," said Mrs. —, "that you should be so
ready to think your own children silly. If wished to think slightingly
of any body's children, it should not be of my own however."

"This is the only point, flatter myself, on which we do not agree.
had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but must
so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly
foolish."

"My dear Mr. —, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of
their father and they get to our age dare say they will
not think about officers any more than we do. remember the time when
liked red coat myself very indeed so do still at my heart;
and if smart young colonel, with five or six thousand year, should
want one of my girls, shall not say nay to him; and thought —
— looked very becoming the other night at — —'s in his
regimentals."

"—ma," cried —, "my aunt says that — — and —
— do not go so often to — —'s as they did when they first
came; she sees them now very often standing in —'s library."

Mrs. — was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with
note for — —; it came from —, and the servant waited
for an answer. Mrs. —'s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was
eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,

"Well, —, who is it from? what is it about? what does he say? Well,
—, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love."

"If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with — and
me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our
lives, for whole day's between two women can never
end without quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the receipt of
this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
Yours ever,

"With the officers!" cried —. wonder my aunt did not tell us of
_that_."

"No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to
rain; and then you must stay all night."

"That would be good scheme," said —, "if you were sure that
they would not offer to send her home."

"Oh! but the gentlemen will have Mr. —'s chaise to go to —;
and the — have no horses to theirs."

"But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, am sure. They are
wanted in the farm, Mr. —, are not they?"

"But if you have got them to-day," said —, "my mother's purpose
will be answered."

She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses
were engaged. — was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her
mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of bad
day. Her hopes were answered; — had not been gone long before it
rained hard. Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was
delighted. The rain continued the whole evening without intermission;
— certainly could not come back.

"This was lucky idea of mine, indeed!" said Mrs. —, more than
once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own. Till the next
morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her
contrivance. Breakfast was scarcely over when servant from —
brought the following note for —:

FIND myself very unwell this morning, which, suppose, is to be
imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends will
not hear of my returning home till am better. They insist also on
my seeing Mr. —--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear
of his having been to excepting sore-throat and head-ache
there is not much the matter with me.

"Well, my dear," said Mr. —, when — had read the note
aloud, "if your daughter should have dangerous fit of illness, if she
should die, it would be comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mr. —, and under your orders."

"Oh! am not at all afraid of her dying. People do not die of little
trifling colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she stays
there, it is all very well. would go and see her, if could have the
carriage."

—, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her, though
the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no horse-woman, walking
was her only alternative. She declared her resolution.

"How can you be so silly," cried her mother, "as to think of such
thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get
there."

"Is this hint to me, —," said her father, "to send for the
horses?"

"No, indeed. do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is nothing,
when one has motive; only three miles. shall be back by dinner."

admire the activity of your benevolence," observed —, "but every
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion,
exertion should always be in proportion to what is required."

"We will go as far as — with you," said — and
—.--— accepted their company, and the three young ladies set
off together.

"If we make haste," said —, as they walked along, "perhaps we may
see something of — — before he goes."

In — they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one
of the officers' wives, and — continued her walk alone, crossing
field after field at quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing
over puddles with impatient activity, and finding herself at last within
view of the house, with weary ancles, dirty stockings, and face
glowing with the warmth of exercise.

She was shewn into the breakfast-parlour, where all but — were
assembled, and where her appearance created great deal of
she should have walked three miles so early in the day,
in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs.
— and — —; and — was convinced that they held her
in contempt for it. She was received, however, very politely by them;
and in their brother's manners there was something better than
politeness; there was good humour and — said very
little, and Mr. — nothing at all. The former was divided between
admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion,
and doubt as to the occasion's justifying her coming so far alone. The
latter was thinking only of his breakfast.

Her enquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered. —
— had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish and not well
enough to leave her room. — was glad to be taken to her
immediately; and —, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving
alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in her note how much she longed
for such visit, was delighted at her entrance. She was not equal,
however, to much conversation, and when — — left them together,
could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the
extraordinary kindness she was treated with. — silently attended
her.

When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and —
began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and
solicitude they shewed for —. The apothecary came, and having
examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught
violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it;
advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts. The advice
was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head
ached acutely. — did not quit her room for moment, nor were
the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact
nothing to do elsewhere.

When the clock struck three, — felt that she must go; and very
unwillingly said so. — — offered her the carriage, and she only
wanted little pressing to accept it, when — testified such concern
in parting with her, that — — was obliged to convert the offer
of the chaise into an invitation to remain at — for the
present. — most thankfully consented, and servant was
dispatched to — to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring
back supply of clothes.

At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half past six
— was summoned to dinner. To the civil enquiries which then
poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the
much superior solicitude of Mr. —'s, she could not make very
favourable answer. — was by no means better. The sisters, on hearing
this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how
shocking it was to have bad cold, and how excessively they disliked
being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their
indifference towards — when not immediately before them, restored
— to the enjoyment of all her original dislike.

Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could
regard with any complacency. His anxiety for — was evident, and his
attentions to herself most pleasing, and they prevented her feeling
herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the
others. She had very little notice from any but him. — — was
engrossed by Mr. —, her sister scarcely less so; and as for Mr.
—, by whom — sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to
eat, drink, and play at cards, who when he found her prefer plain dish
to ragout, had nothing to say to her.

When dinner was over, she returned directly to —, and — —
began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were
pronounced to be very bad indeed, mixture of pride and impertinence;
she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mrs. —
thought the same, and added,

"She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent
walker. shall never forget her appearance this morning. She really
looked almost wild."

"She did indeed, —. could hardly keep my countenance. Very
nonsensical to come at all! Why must _she_ be scampering about the
country, because her sister had cold? Her hair so untidy, so blowsy!"

"Yes, and her petticoat; hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
in mud, am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to
hide it, not doing its office."

"Your picture may be very exact, —," said —; "but this was
all lost upon me. thought — — — looked remarkably
well, when she came into the room this morning. Her dirty petticoat
quite escaped my notice."

"_You_ observed it, Mr. —, am sure," said — —; "and am
inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your sister_ make such
an exhibition."

"To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is,
above her ancles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what could she mean by
it? It seems to me to shew an abominable sort of conceited independence,
most country town indifference to decorum."

"It shews an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said
—.

am afraid, Mr. —," observed — —, in half whisper,
"that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine
eyes."

"Not at all," he replied; "they were brightened by the
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. — began again.

have an excessive regard for — —, she is really very sweet
girl, and wish with all my heart she were well settled. But with such
father and mother, and such low connections, am afraid there is no
chance of it."

think have heard you say, that their uncle is an attorney in
—."

"If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ —," cried —, "it
would not make them one jot less agreeable."

"But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any
consideration in the world," replied —.

To this speech — made no answer; but his sisters gave it their
hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of
their dear friend's vulgar relations.

With renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room on
leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
She was still very poorly, and — would not quit her at all, till
late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep, and
when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go
down stairs herself. On entering the drawing-room she found the whole
party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting
them to be playing high she declined it, and making her sister the
excuse, said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay
below with book. Mr. — looked at her with astonishment.

"— — —," said — —, "despises cards. She is great
reader and has no pleasure in anything else."

deserve neither such praise nor such censure," cried —; am
_not_ great reader, and have pleasure in many things."

"In nursing your sister am sure you have pleasure," said —; "and
hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quite well."

— thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards table
where few books were lying. He immediately offered to fetch her
others; all that his library afforded.

"— wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
credit; but am an idle fellow, and though have not many, have more
than ever look into."

— assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those
in the room.

am astonished," said — —, "that my father should have left
so small collection of delightful library you have at
—, Mr. —!"

"It ought to be good," he replied, "it has been the work of many
generations."

"— then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying
books."

cannot comprehend the neglect of family library in such days as
these."

"Neglect! am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of
that noble place. —, when you build _your_ house, wish it may be
half as delightful as —."

"But would really advise you to make your purchase in that
neighbourhood, and take — for kind of model. There is not
finer county in — than —."

"Upon my word, —, should think it more possible to get
— by purchase than by imitation."

— was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her very little
attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near
the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. — and his eldest
sister, to observe the game.

"Is — — much grown since the spring?" said — —; "will
she be as tall as am?"

think she will. She is now about — — —'s height, or
rather taller."

"How long to see her again! never met with anybody who delighted me
so much. Such countenance, such manners! and so extremely
accomplished for her age! Her performance on the piano-forte is
exquisite."

"It is amazing to me," said —, "how young ladies can have patience
to be so very accomplished, as they all are."

"Yes, all of them, think. They all paint tables, cover skreens and net
purses. scarcely know any one who cannot do all this, and am sure
never heard young lady spoken of for the first time, without being
informed that she was very accomplished."

"Your list of the common extent of accomplishments," said —, "has
too much truth. The word is applied to many woman who deserves it no
otherwise than by netting purse, or covering skreen. But am very
far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general.
cannot boast of knowing more than half dozen, in the whole range of my
acquaintance, that are really accomplished."

"Then," observed —, "you must comprehend great deal in your
idea of an accomplished woman."

"Oh! certainly," cried his faithful assistant, "no one can be really
esteemed accomplished, who does not greatly surpass what is usually met
with. woman must have thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing,
dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and besides all
this, she must possess certain something in her air and manner of
walking, the tone of her voice, her address and expressions, or the word
will be but half deserved."

"All this she must possess," added —, "and to all this she must yet
add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by
extensive reading."

am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women.
rather wonder now at your knowing _any_."

"Are you so severe upon your own sex, as to doubt the possibility of all
this?"

never saw such woman. never saw such capacity, and taste, and
application, and elegance, as you describe, united."

Mrs. — and — — both cried out against the injustice of her
implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who
answered this description, when Mr. — called them to order, with
bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward. As all
conversation was thereby at an end, — soon afterwards left the
room.

"— —," said — —, when the door was closed on her, "is
one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other
sex, by undervaluing their own; and with many men, dare say, it
succeeds. But, in my opinion, it is paltry device, very mean art."

"Undoubtedly," replied —, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed,
"there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies sometimes condescend
to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cunning is
despicable."

— — was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to
continue the subject.

— joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and
that she could not leave her. — urged Mr. —'s being sent for
immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could
be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most
eminent physicians. This, she would not hear of; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother's proposal; and it was settled
that Mr. — should be sent for early in the morning, if — —
were not decidedly better. — was quite uncomfortable; his sisters
declared that they were miserable. They solaced their wretchedness,
however, by duets after supper, while he could find no better relief to
his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every
possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister.

— passed the chief of the night in her sister's room, and in the
morning had the pleasure of being able to send tolerable answer to the
enquiries which she very early received from Mr. — by housemaid,
and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his
sisters. In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have
note sent to —, desiring her mother to visit —, and form her
own judgment of her situation. The note was immediately dispatched, and
its contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. —, accompanied by her
two youngest girls, reached — soon after the family breakfast.

Had she found — in any apparent danger, Mrs. — would have been
very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was
not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her
restoration to health would probably remove her from —. She
would not listen therefore to her daughter's proposal of being carried
home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think
it at all advisable. After sitting little while with —, on —
—'s appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all
attended her into the breakfast parlour. — met them with hopes
that Mrs. — had not found — — worse than she expected.

"Indeed have, —," was her answer. "She is great deal too ill to be
moved. Mr. — says we must not think of moving her. We must trespass
little longer on your kindness."

"Removed!" cried —. "It must not be thought of. My sister, am
sure, will not hear of her removal."

"You may depend upon it, —," said — —, with cold civility,
"that — — shall receive every possible attention while she
remains with us."

am sure," she added, "if it was not for such good friends do not
know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers
vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is
always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest
temper ever met with. often tell my other girls they are nothing to
_her_. You have sweet room here, Mr. —, and charming prospect
over that gravel walk. do not know place in the country that is
equal to —. You will not think of quitting it in hurry
hope, though you have but short lease."

"Whatever do is done in hurry," replied he; "and therefore if
should resolve to quit —, should probably be off in five
minutes. At present, however, consider myself as quite fixed here."

wish might take this for compliment; but to be so easily seen
through am afraid is pitiful."

"That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that deep,
intricate character is more or less estimable than such one as yours."

"—," cried her mother, "remember where you are, and do not run on in
the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home."

did not know before," continued — immediately, "that you were
studier of character. It must be an amusing study."

"Yes; but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing. They have at
least that advantage."

"The country," said —, "can in general supply but few subjects for
such study. In country neighbourhood you move in very confined
and unvarying society."

"But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be
observed in them for ever."

"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. —, offended by his manner of mentioning
country neighbourhood. assure you there is quite as much of _that_
going on in the country as in town."

Every body was surprised; and —, after looking at her for moment,
turned silently away. Mrs. —, who fancied she had gained complete
victory over him, continued her triumph.

cannot see that — has any great advantage over the country for
my part, except the shops and public places. The country is vast deal
pleasanter, is not it, Mr. —?"

"When am in the country," he replied, never wish to leave it; and
when am in town it is pretty much the same. They have each their
advantages, and can be equally happy in either."

"Aye--that is because you have the right disposition. But that
gentleman," looking at —, "seemed to think the country was nothing
at all."

"Indeed, —, you are mistaken," said —, blushing for her
mother. "You quite mistook Mr. —. He only meant that there were not
such variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which
you must acknowledge to be true."

"Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with
many people in this neighbourhood, believe there are few
neighbourhoods larger. know we dine with four and twenty families."

Nothing but concern for — could enable — to keep his
countenance. His sister was less delicate, and directed her eye towards
Mr. — with very expressive smile. —, for the sake of
saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if
— — had been at — since _her_ coming away.

"Yes, she called yesterday with her father. What an agreeable man —
— is, Mr. —--is not he? so much the man of fashion! so
genteel and so has always something to say to every
is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy
themselves very important and never open their mouths, quite mistake the
matter."

"No, she would go home. fancy she was wanted about the mince pies. For
my part, Mr. —, always keep servants that can do their own
work; _my_ daughters are brought up differently. But every body is to
judge for themselves, and the — are very good sort of girls,
assure you. It is pity they are not handsome! Not that think
— so _very_ then she is our particular friend."

"Oh! dear, you must own she is very plain. — — herself
has often said so, and envied me —'s beauty. do not like to boast
of my own child, but to be sure, —--one does not often see any body
better looking. It is what every body says. do not trust my own
partiality. When she was only fifteen, there was gentleman at my
brother —'s in town, so much in love with her, that my
was sure he would make her an offer before we came away.
But however he did not. Perhaps he thought her too young. However, he
wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were."

"— so ended his affection," said — impatiently. "There has
been many one, fancy, overcome in the same way. wonder who first
discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!"

"Of fine, stout, healthy love it may. Every thing nourishes what is
strong already. But if it be only slight, thin sort of inclination,
am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away."

— only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made —
tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again. She longed to
speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after short silence Mrs.
— began repeating her thanks to Mr. — for his kindness to
—, with an apology for troubling him also with —. Mr. — was
unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be
civil also, and say what the occasion required. She performed her part
indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. — was satisfied, and
soon afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest of
her daughters put herself forward. The two girls had been whispering to
each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the
youngest should tax Mr. — with having promised on his first coming
into the country to give ball at —.

— was stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with fine complexion
and good-humoured countenance; favourite with her mother, whose
affection had brought her into public at an early age. She had high
animal spirits, and sort of natural self-consequence, which the
attentions of the officers, to whom her uncle's good dinners and her own
easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance. She was very
equal therefore to address Mr. — on the subject of the ball, and
abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most
shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer to this
sudden attack was delightful to their mother's ear.

am perfectly ready, assure you, to keep my engagement; and when
your sister is recovered, you shall if you please name the very day of
the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while she is ill."

— declared herself satisfied. "Oh! would be much better to
wait till — was well, and by that time most likely — —
would be at — again. — when you have given _your_ ball," she
added, shall insist on their giving one also. shall tell —
— it will be quite shame if he does not."

Mrs. — and her daughters then departed, and — returned
instantly to —, leaving her own and her relations' behaviour to the
remarks of the two ladies and Mr. —; the latter of whom, however,
could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _her_, in spite of
all — —'s witticisms on _fine eyes_.

The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. — and —
— had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who
continued, though slowly, to mend; and in the evening — joined
their party in the drawing-room. The loo table, however, did not appear.
Mr. — was writing, and — —, seated near him, was watching
the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by
messages to his sister. Mr. — and Mr. — were at piquet, and
Mrs. — was observing their game.

— took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in
attending to what passed between — and his companion. The perpetual
commendations of the lady either on his hand-writing, or on the evenness
of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern
with which her praises were received, formed curious dialogue, and was
exactly in unison with her opinion of each.

"How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of the
year! Letters of business too! How odious should think them!"

am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend it for you. mend
pens remarkably well."

"Tell your sister am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp,
and pray let her know that am quite in raptures with her beautiful
little design for table, and think it infinitely superior to —
—'s."

"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till write
present have not room to do them justice."

"Oh! it is of no consequence. shall see her in —. But do you
always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. —?"

"They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me
to determine."

"It is rule with me, that person who can write long letter, with
ease, cannot write ill."

"That will not do for compliment to —, —," cried her
he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too much for
words of four not you, —?"

"Oh!" cried — —, "— writes in the most careless way
imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest."

"My ideas flow so rapidly that have not time to express which
means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents."

"Nothing is more deceitful," said —, "than the appearance of
humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an
indirect boast."

"The indirect you are really proud of your defects in
writing, because you consider them as proceeding from rapidity of
thought and carelessness of execution, which if not estimable, you think
at least highly interesting. The power of doing any thing with
quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any
attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you told Mrs.
— this morning that if you ever resolved on quitting —
you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be sort of
panegyric, of compliment to yet what is there so very
laudable in precipitance which must leave very necessary business
undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or any one else?"

"Nay," cried —, "this is too much, to remember at night all the
foolish things that were said in the morning. — yet, upon my honour,
believed what said of myself to be true, and believe it at this
moment. At least, therefore, did not assume the character of needless
precipitance merely to shew off before the ladies."

dare say you believed it; but am by no means convinced that you
would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as
dependant on chance as that of any man know; and if, as you were
mounting your horse, friend were to say, '—, you had better stay
till next week,' you would probably do it, you would probably not
at another word, might stay month."

"You have only proved by this," cried —, "that Mr. — did
not do justice to his own disposition. You have shewn him off now much
more than he did himself."

am exceedingly gratified," said —, "by your converting what my
friend says into compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But am
afraid you are giving it turn which that gentleman did by no means
intend; for he would certainly think the better of me, if under such
circumstance were to give flat denial, and ride off as fast as
could."

"Would Mr. — then consider the rashness of your original intention
as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?"

"Upon my word cannot exactly explain the matter, — must speak for
himself."

"You expect me to account for opinions which you chuse to call mine, but
which have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to stand
according to your representation, you must remember, — —, that
the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and the
delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one
argument in favour of its propriety."

"To yield the _persuasion_ of friend is no merit
with you."

"To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of
either."

"You appear to me, Mr. —, to allow nothing for the influence of
friendship and affection. regard for the requester would often make
one readily yield to request, without waiting for arguments to reason
one into it. am not particularly speaking of such case as you have
supposed about Mr. —. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the
circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour
thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend,
where one of them is desired by the other to change resolution of no
very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying
with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?"

"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange
with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to
appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
between the parties?"

"By all means," cried —; "let us hear all the particulars, not
forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more
weight in the argument, — —, than you may be aware of. assure
you that if — were not such great tall fellow, in comparison with
myself, should not pay him half so much deference. declare do not
know more aweful object than —, on particular occasions, and in
particular places; at his own house especially, and of — evening
when he has nothing to do."

Mr. — smiled; but — thought she could perceive that he was
rather offended; and therefore checked her laugh. — — warmly
resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with her
brother for talking such nonsense.

see your design, —," said his dislike an
argument, and want to silence this."

"Perhaps do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and —
— will defer yours till am out of the room, shall be very
thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me."

"What you ask," said —, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
— had much better finish his letter."

When that business was over, he applied to — — and —
for the indulgence of some music. — — moved with alacrity to
the piano-forte, and after polite request that — would lead
the way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she
seated herself.

Mrs. — sang with her sister, and while they were thus employed
— could not help observing as she turned over some music books
that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. —'s eyes were fixed
on her. She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of
admiration to so great man; and yet that he should look at her because
he disliked her, was still more strange. She could only imagine however
at last, that she drew his notice because there was something about
her more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than
in any other person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked
him too little to care for his approbation.

After playing some — songs, — — varied the charm by
lively — air; and soon afterwards Mr. —, drawing near
—, said to her--

"Do not you feel great inclination, — —, to seize such an
opportunity of dancing reel?"

She smiled, but made no answer. He repeated the question, with some
surprise at her silence.

"Oh!" said she, heard you before; but could not immediately
determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, know, to say '—,'
that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but always
delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating person of
their premeditated contempt. have therefore made up my mind to tell
you, that do not want to dance reel at now despise me if
you dare."

—, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his
gallantry; but there was mixture of sweetness and archness in her
manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody; and — had
never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her. He really
believed, that were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he
should be in some danger.

— — saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her great
anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend —, received some
assistance from her desire of getting rid of —.

She often tried to provoke — into disliking her guest, by talking of
their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.

hope," said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the
next day, "you will give your few hints, when this
desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue;
and if you can compass it, do cure the younger girls of running after
the if may mention so delicate subject, endeavour to
check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence,
which your lady possesses."

"Oh! let the portraits of your uncle and aunt — be
placed in the gallery at —. Put them next to your great uncle
the judge. They are in the same profession, you know; only in different
lines. As for your —'s picture, you must not attempt to have it
taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?"

"It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but their
colour and shape, and the eye-lashes, so remarkably fine, might be
copied."

At that moment they were met from another walk, by Mrs. — and
— herself.

did not know that you intended to walk," said — —, in some
confusion, lest they had been overheard.

"You used us abominably ill," answered Mrs. —, "in running away
without telling us that you were coming out."

Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. —, she left — to walk
by herself. The path just admitted three. Mr. — felt their rudeness
and immediately said,--

"This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go into the
avenue."

But —, who had not the least inclination to remain with them,
laughingly answered,

"No, no; stay where you are charmingly group'd, and appear to
uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting
fourth. Good bye."

She then ran gaily off, rejoicing as she rambled about, in the hope of
being at home again in day or two. — was already so much recovered
as to intend leaving her room for couple of hours that evening.

When the ladies removed after dinner, — ran up to her sister,
and seeing her well guarded from cold, attended her into the
drawing-room; where she was welcomed by her two friends with many
professions of pleasure; and — had never seen them so agreeable
as they were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared.
Their powers of conversation were considerable. They could describe an
entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh
at their acquaintance with spirit.

But when the gentlemen entered, — was no longer the first object.
— —'s eyes were instantly turned towards —, and she had
something to say to him before he had advanced many steps. He addressed
himself directly to — —, with polite congratulation; Mr. —
also made her slight bow, and said he was "very glad;" but diffuseness
and warmth remained for —'s salutation. He was full of joy and
attention. The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest she
should suffer from the change of room; and she removed at his desire to
the other side of the fire-place, that she might be farther from the
door. He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to any one else.
—, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great
delight.

When tea was over, Mr. — reminded his of the
in vain. She had obtained private intelligence that Mr.
— did not wish for cards; and Mr. — soon found even his open
petition rejected. She assured him that no one intended to play, and the
silence of the whole party on the subject, seemed to justify her. Mr.
— had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the
sophas and go to sleep. — took up book; — — did the same;
and Mrs. —, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and
rings, joined now and then in her brother's conversation with —
—.

— —'s attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr.
—'s progress through _his_ book, as in reading her own; and she was
perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page. She
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
question, and read on. At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be
amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the
second volume of his, she gave great yawn and said, "— pleasant it
is to spend an evening in this way! declare after all there is no
enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of any thing than of
have house of my own, shall be miserable if have not
an excellent library."

No one made any reply. She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and
cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement; when hearing
her brother mentioning ball to — —, she turned suddenly
towards him and said,

"By the bye, —, are you really serious in meditating dance at
—?--I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult
the wishes of the present party; am much mistaken if there are not
some among us to whom ball would be rather punishment than
pleasure."

"If you mean —," cried her brother, "he may go to bed, if he chuses,
before it as for the ball, it is quite settled thing; and
as soon as — has made white soup enough shall send round my
cards."

should like balls infinitely better," she replied, "if they were
carried on in different manner; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual process of such meeting. It would surely be much
more rational if conversation instead of dancing made the order of the
day."

"Much more rational, my dear —, dare say, but it would not be
near so much like ball."

— — made no answer; and soon afterwards got up and walked about
the room. Her figure was elegant, and she walked —, at
whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious. In the desperation
of her feelings she resolved on one effort more; and, turning to
—, said,

"— — —, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take
turn about the assure you it is very refreshing after sitting
so long in one attitude."

— was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. — —
succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr. — looked
up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as
— herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book. He was
directly invited to join their party, but he declined it, observing,
that he could imagine but two motives for their chusing to walk up and
down the room together, with either of which motives his joining them
would interfere. "What could he mean? she was dying to know what could
be his asked — whether she could at all understand
him?

"Not at all," was her answer; "but depend upon it, he means to be severe
on us, and our surest way of disappointing him, will be to ask nothing
about it."

— —, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. — in any
thing, and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation of his two
motives.

have not the smallest objection to explaining them," said he, as soon
as she allowed him to speak. "You either chuse this method of passing
the evening because you are in each other's confidence and have secret
affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures
appear to the greatest advantage in the first, should be
completely in your if the second, can admire you much better
as sit by the fire."

"Oh! shocking!" cried — —. never heard any thing so
abominable. How shall we punish him for such speech?"

"Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination," said —. "We
can all plague and punish one another. Teaze at
as you are, you must know how it is to be done."

"But upon my honour do _not_. do assure you that my intimacy has not
yet taught me _that_. Teaze calmness of temper and presence of mind! No,
feel he may defy us there. — as to laughter, we will not expose
ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without subject. Mr.
— may hug himself."

"Mr. — is not to be laughed at!" cried —. "That is an
uncommon advantage, and uncommon hope it will continue, for it would
be great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintance. dearly love
laugh."

"— —," said he, "has given me credit for more than can be. The
wisest and the best of men, nay, the wisest and best of their actions,
may be rendered ridiculous by person whose first object in life is
joke."

"Certainly," replied —--"there are such people, but hope am
not one of _them_. hope never ridicule what is wise or good. Follies
and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies _do_ divert me, own, and
laugh at them whenever these, suppose, are precisely what
you are without."

"Perhaps that is not possible for any one. But it has been the study of
my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose strong
understanding to ridicule."

"Yes, vanity is weakness indeed. But there is real
superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation."

"Your examination of Mr. — is over, presume," said —
—;--"and pray what is the result?"

am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. — has no defect. He owns it
himself without disguise."

"No"--said —, have made no such pretension. have faults enough,
but they are not, hope, of understanding. My temper dare not vouch
is believe too little too little for the
convenience of the world. cannot forget the follies and vices of
others so soon as ought, nor their offences against myself. My
feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper
would perhaps be called good opinion once lost is lost
for ever."

"_That_ is failing —. "Implacable resentment
_is_ shade in character. But you have chosen your fault
really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me."

"There is, believe, in every disposition tendency to some particular
evil, natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."

"— yours," he replied with smile, "is wilfully to misunderstand
them."

"Do let us have little — —, tired of
conversation in which she had no you will not mind my
waking Mr. —."

Her sister made not the smallest objection, and the piano-forte was
opened, and —, after few moments recollection, was not sorry for
it. He began to feel the danger of paying — too much attention.

In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, — wrote the
next morning to her mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for
them in the course of the day. But Mrs. —, who had calculated on
her daughters remaining at — till the following —, which
would exactly finish —'s week, could not bring herself to receive
them with pleasure before. Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
least not to —'s wishes, for she was impatient to get home. Mrs.
— sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage
before —; and in her postscript it was added, that if Mr. —
and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them very
staying longer, however, — was positively
did she much expect it would be asked; and fearful, on the
contrary, as being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long,
she urged — to borrow Mr. —'s carriage immediately, and at
length it was settled that their original design of leaving —
that morning should be mentioned, and the request made.

The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was
said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on
—; and till the morrow, their going was deferred. — — was
then sorry that she had proposed the delay, for her jealousy and dislike
of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other.

The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so
soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade — — that it would not be
safe for she was not enough recovered; but — was firm where
she felt herself to be right.

To Mr. — it was welcome had been at
— long enough. She attracted him more than he —
— was uncivil to _her_, and more teazing than usual to himself.
He wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration
should _now_ escape him, nothing that could elevate her with the hope of
influencing his felicity; sensible that if such an idea had been
suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight
in confirming or crushing it. —eady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke
ten words to her through the whole of —, and though they were at
one time left by themselves for half an hour, he adhered most
conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.

On —, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost
all, took place. — —'s civility to — increased at last
very rapidly, as well as her affection for —; and when they parted,
after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to
see her either at — or —, and embracing her most
tenderly, she even shook hands with the took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest spirits.

They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother. Mrs. —
wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much
trouble, and was sure — would have caught cold their
father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really
glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle. The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its
animation, and almost all its sense, by the absence of — and
—.

They found —, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human
nature; and had some new extracts to admire, and some new observations
of thread-bare morality to listen to. — and — had
information for them of different sort. Much had been done, and much
had been said in the regiment since the preceding —; several of
the officers had dined lately with their uncle, private had been
flogged, and it had actually been hinted that — — was going
to be married.

hope, my dear," said Mr. — to his wife, as they were at
breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered good dinner to-day,
because have reason to expect an addition to our family party."

"Who do you mean, my dear? know of nobody that is coming am sure,
unless — — should happen to call in, and hope _my_ dinners
are good enough for her. do not believe she often sees such at home."

"The person of whom speak, is gentleman and stranger." Mrs.
—'s eyes gentleman and stranger! It is Mr. —
am sure. Why —--you never dropt word of this; you sly thing!
Well, am sure shall be extremely glad to see Mr. —.--—--good
lord! how unlucky! there is not bit of fish to be got to-day. —,
my love, ring the bell. must speak to —, this moment."

"It is _not_ Mr. —," said her husband; "it is person whom
never saw in the whole course of my life."

This roused general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and five daughters at once.

After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus explained.
"About month ago received this letter, and about fortnight ago
answered it, for thought it case of some delicacy, and requiring
early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. —, who, when am dead,
may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases."

"Oh! my dear," cried his wife, cannot bear to hear that mentioned.
Pray do not talk of that odious man. do think it is the hardest thing
in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own
children; and am sure if had been you, should have tried long ago
to do something or other about it."

— and — attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.
They had often attempted it before, but it was subject on which Mrs.
— was beyond the reach of reason; and she continued to rail
bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from family of
five daughters, in favour of man whom nobody cared anything about.

"It certainly is most iniquitous affair," said Mr. —, "and
nothing can clear Mr. — from the guilt of inheriting —.
But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be little
softened by his manner of expressing himself."

"No, that am sure shall not; and think it was very impertinent of
him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. hate such false
friends. Why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father
did before him?"

"Why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that
head, as you will hear."

The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured
father, always gave me much uneasiness, and since have had the
misfortune to lose him, have frequently wished to heal the
breach; but for some time was kept back by my own doubts, fearing
lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be on good
terms with any one, with whom it had always pleased him to be at
Mrs. —."--— mind however is now made up on
the subject, for having received ordination at —, have been
so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the —
— — — de —, widow of — — de —,
whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable
rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to
demean myself with grateful respect towards her —, and be
ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are
instituted by the — of —. As clergyman, moreover,
feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in
all families within the reach of my influence; and on these grounds
flatter myself that my present overtures of good-will are highly
commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next in the
entail of — estate, will be kindly overlooked on your side,
and not lead you to reject the offered olive branch. cannot be
otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your
amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as well as to
assure you of my readiness to make them every possible
of this hereafter. If you should have no objection to receive me
into your house, propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on
you and your family, —, — 18th, by four o'clock, and
shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the —
se'night following, which can do without any inconvenience, as
— — is far from objecting to my occasional absence on
—, provided that some other clergyman is engaged to do the
duty of the day. remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to
your lady and daughters, your well-wisher and friend,

"At four o'clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,"
said Mr. —, as he folded up the letter. "He seems to be most
conscientious and polite young man, upon my word; and doubt not will
prove valuable acquaintance, especially if — — should be so
indulgent as to let him come to us again."

"There is some sense in what he says about the girls however; and if he
is disposed to make them any amends, shall not be the person to
discourage him."

"Though it is difficult," said —, "to guess in what way he can mean
to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his
credit."

— was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for —
—, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying
his parishioners whenever it were required.

"He must be an oddity, think," said she. cannot make him
is something very pompous in his what can he
mean by apologizing for being next in the cannot suppose he
would help it, if he he be sensible man, sir?"

"No, my dear; think not. have great hopes of finding him quite the
reverse. There is mixture of servility and self-importance in his
letter, which promises well. am impatient to see him."

"In point of composition," said —, "his letter does not seem
defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet
think it is well expressed."

To — and —, neither the letter nor its writer were in any
degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should
come in scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had
received pleasure from the society of man in any other colour. As for
their mother, Mr. —'s letter had done away much of her ill-will,
and she was preparing to see him with degree of composure, which
astonished her husband and daughters.

Mr. — was punctual to his time, and was received with great
politeness by the whole family. Mr. — indeed said little; but the
ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. — seemed neither in need
of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself. He was tall,
heavy looking young man of five and twenty. His air was grave and
stately, and his manners were very formal. He had not been long seated
before he complimented Mrs. — on having so fine family of
daughters, said he had heard much of their beauty, but that, in this
instance, fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did
not doubt her seeing them all in due time well disposed of in marriage.
This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers, but
Mrs. —, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily,

"You are very kind, sir, am sure; and wish with all my heart it may
prove so; for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so
oddly."

"Ah! sir, do indeed. It is grievous affair to my poor girls, you
must confess. Not that mean to find fault with _you_, for such things
know are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates
will go when once they come to be entailed."

am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair
could say much on the subject, but that am cautious of appearing
forward and precipitate. But can assure the young ladies that come
prepared to admire them. At present will not say more, but perhaps
when we are better acquainted----"

He was interrupted by summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each
other. They were not the only objects of Mr. —'s admiration. The
hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture were examined and praised;
and his commendation of every thing would have touched Mrs. —'s
heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his
own future property. The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and
he begged to know to which of his fair cousins, the excellence of its
cookery was owing. But here he was set right by Mrs. —, who assured
him with some asperity that they were very well able to keep good
cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He begged
pardon for having displeased her. In softened tone she declared
herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologise for about
quarter of an hour.

During dinner, Mr. — scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants
were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his
guest, and therefore started subject in which he expected him to
shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness. —
— de —'s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his
comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. — could not have chosen
better. Mr. — was eloquent in her praise. The subject elevated him
to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with most important aspect
he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in
person of affability and condescension, as he had himself
experienced from — —. She had been graciously pleased to
approve of both the discourses, which he had already had the honour of
preaching before her. She had also asked him twice to dine at —,
and had sent for him only the — before, to make up her pool of
quadrille in the evening. — — was reckoned proud by many
people he knew, but _he_ had never seen any thing but affability in her.
She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she
made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the
neighbourhood, nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for week or
two, to visit his relations. She had even condescended to advise him to
marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had
once paid him visit in his humble parsonage; where she had perfectly
approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed
to suggest some shelves in the closets up stairs.

"That is all very proper and civil, am sure," said Mrs. —, "and
dare say she is very agreeable woman. It is pity that great ladies
in general are not more like her. Does she live near you, sir?"

"The garden in which stands my humble abode, is separated only by lane
from — —, her ladyship's residence."

"She has one only daughter, the heiress of —, and of very
extensive property."

"Ah!" cried Mrs. —, shaking her head, "then she is better off than
many girls. — what sort of young lady is she? is she handsome?"

"She is most charming young lady indeed. — — herself says
that in point of true beauty, — — — is far superior to the
handsomest of her sex; because there is that in her features which marks
the young woman of distinguished birth. She is unfortunately of sickly
constitution, which has prevented her making that progress in many
accomplishments, which she could not otherwise have failed of; as am
informed by the lady who superintended her education, and who still
resides with them. But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends
to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies."

"Has she been presented? do not remember her name among the ladies at
court."

"Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town;
and by that means, as told — — myself one day, has deprived
the — court of its brightest ornament. Her ladyship seemed pleased
with the idea, and you may imagine that am happy on every occasion to
offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to
ladies. have more than once observed to — —, that her
charming daughter seemed born to be duchess, and that the most
elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by
are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and
it is sort of attention which conceive myself peculiarly bound to
pay."

"You judge very properly," said Mr. —, "and it is happy for you
that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. —y ask
whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the
moment, or are the result of previous study?"

"They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though
sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant
compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, always wish to
give them as unstudied an air as possible."

Mr. —'s expectations were fully answered. His cousin was as absurd
as he had hoped, and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment,
maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance,
and except in an occasional glance at —, requiring no partner in
his pleasure.

By tea-time however the dose had been enough, and Mr. — was glad to
take his guest into the drawing-room again, and when tea was over, glad
to invite him to read aloud to the ladies. Mr. — readily assented,
and book was produced; but on beholding it, (for every thing announced
it to be from circulating library,) he started back, and begging
pardon, protested that he never read stared at him, and
— books were produced, and after some deliberation
he chose —'s —. — gaped as he opened the volume, and
before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, she
interrupted him with,

"Do you know, mama, that my uncle — talks of turning away —,
and if he does, — — will hire him. My aunt told me so
herself on —. shall walk to — to-morrow to hear more
about it, and to ask when Mr. — comes back from town."

— was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but Mr.
—, much offended, laid aside his book, and said,

have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books
of serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit. It amazes
me, certainly, there can be nothing so advantageous to
them as instruction. But will no longer importune my young cousin."

Then turning to Mr. —, he offered himself as his antagonist at
backgammon. Mr. — accepted the challenge, observing that he acted
very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements. Mrs.
— and her daughters apologised most civilly for —'s
interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would
resume his book; but Mr. —, after assuring them that he bore his
young cousin no ill will, and should never resent her behaviour as any
affront, seated himself at another table with Mr. —, and prepared
for backgammon.

Mr. — was not sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of
his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful
acquaintance. The subjection in which his father had brought him up, had
given him originally great humility of manner, but it was now good
deal counteracted by the self-conceit of weak head, living in
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
prosperity. fortunate chance had recommended him to — — de
— when the living of — was vacant; and the respect which he
felt for her high rank, and his veneration for her as his patroness,
mingling with very good opinion of himself, of his authority as
clergyman, and his rights as rector, made him altogether mixture of
pride and obsequiousness, self-importance and humility.

Having now good house and very sufficient income, he intended to
marry; and in seeking reconciliation with the — family he had
wife in view, as he meant to chuse one of the daughters, if he found
them as handsome and amiable as they were represented by common report.
This was his plan of inheriting their father's
estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and
suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own
part.

His plan did not vary on seeing —'s lovely face
confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of what
was due to seniority; and for the first evening _she_ was his settled
choice. The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in quarter
of an hour's with Mrs. — before breakfast,
conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and leading naturally
to the avowal of his hopes, that mistress for it might be found at
—, produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general
encouragement, caution against the very — he had fixed to
her _younger_ daughters she could not take upon her to could
not positively she did not _know_ of any
_eldest_ daughter, she must just felt it incumbent on her
to hint, was likely to be very soon engaged."

Mr. — had only to change from — to —--and it was soon
while Mrs. — was stirring the fire. —, equally
next to — in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course.

Mrs. — treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have
two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of
the day before, was now high in her good graces.

—'s intention of walking to — was not forgotten; every sister
except — agreed to go with her; and Mr. — was to attend them,
at the request of Mr. —, who was most anxious to get rid of him,
and have his library to himself; for thither Mr. — had followed
him after breakfast, and there he would continue, nominally engaged with
one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Mr.
—, with little cessation, of his house and garden at —. Such
doings discomposed Mr. — exceedingly. In his library he had been
always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told
—, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room in the
house, he was used to be free from them there; his civility, therefore,
was most prompt in inviting Mr. — to join his daughters in their
walk; and Mr. —, being in fact much better fitted for walker
than reader, was extremely well pleased to close his large book, and
go.

In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his
cousins, their time passed till they entered —. The attention of
the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by _him_. Their eyes
were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers,
and nothing less than very smart bonnet indeed, or really new muslin
in shop window, could recal them.

But the attention of every lady was soon caught by young man, whom
they had never seen before, of most gentleman-like appearance, walking
with an officer on the other side of the way. The officer was the very
Mr. —, concerning whose return from — — came to inquire,
and he bowed as they passed. All were struck with the stranger's air,
all wondered who he could be, and — and —, determined if
possible to find out, led the way across the street, under pretence of
wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained
the pavement when the two gentlemen turning back had reached the same
spot. Mr. — addressed them directly, and entreated permission to
introduce his friend, Mr. —, who had returned with him the day
before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted commission in
their corps. This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted
only regimentals to make him completely charming. His appearance was
greatly in his favour; he had all the best part of beauty, fine
countenance, good figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction
was followed up on his side by happy readiness of
readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the
whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably,
when the sound of horses drew their notice, and — and — were
seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the ladies of the group,
the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual
civilities. — was the principal spokesman, and — — the
principal object. He was then, he said, on his way to — on
purpose to inquire after her. Mr. — corroborated it with bow, and
was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on —, when they
were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger, and —
happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other,
was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour,
one looked white, the other red. Mr. —, after few moments,
touched his salutation which Mr. — just deigned to return.
What could be the meaning of was impossible to imagine; it was
impossible not to long to know.

In another minute Mr. —, but without seeming to have noticed what
passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.

Mr. — and Mr. — walked with the young ladies to the door of
Mr. —'s house, and then made their bows, in spite of — —'s
pressing entreaties that they would come in, and even in spite of Mrs.
—' throwing up the parlour window, and loudly seconding the
invitation.

Mrs. — was always glad to see her nieces, and the two eldest, from
their recent absence, were particularly welcome, and she was eagerly
expressing her surprise at their sudden return home, which, as their own
carriage had not fetched them, she should have known nothing about, if
she had not happened to see Mr. —'s shop boy in the street, who had
told her that they were not to send any more draughts to —
because the — — were come away, when her civility was claimed
towards Mr. — by —'s introduction of him. She received him with
her very best politeness, which he returned with as much more,
apologising for his intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with
her, which he could not help flattering himself however might be
justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to
her notice. Mrs. — was quite awed by such an excess of good
breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put an end to
by exclamations and inquiries about the other, of whom, however, she
could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. — had
brought him from —, and that he was to have lieutenant's
commission in the ----shire. She had been watching him the last hour,
she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had Mr. —
appeared — and — would certainly have continued the occupation,
but unluckily no one passed the windows now except few of the
officers, who in comparison with the stranger, were become "stupid,
disagreeable fellows." Some of them were to dine with the — the
next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr.
—, and give him an invitation also, if the family from —
would come in the evening. This was agreed to, and Mrs. —
protested that they would have nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
tickets, and little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect of such
delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits. Mr.
— repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured
with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless.

As they walked home, — related to — what she had seen pass
between the two gentlemen; but though — would have defended either or
both, had they appeared to be wrong, she could no more explain such
behaviour than her sister.

Mr. — on his return highly gratified Mrs. — by admiring Mrs.
—'s manners and politeness. He protested that except —
— and her daughter, he had never seen more elegant woman; for
she had not only received him with the utmost civility, but had even
pointedly included him in her invitation for the next evening, although
utterly unknown to her before. Something he supposed might be attributed
to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much
attention in the whole course of his life.

As no objection was made to the young people's engagement with their
aunt, and all Mr. —'s scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. — for
single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach
conveyed him and his five cousins at suitable hour to —; and the
girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,
that Mr. — had accepted their uncle's invitation, and was then in
the house.

When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.
— was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much
struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he
might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour
at —; comparison that did not at first convey much
gratification; but when Mrs. — understood from him what —
was, and who was its proprietor, when she had listened to the
description of only one of — —'s drawing-rooms, and found
that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented comparison
with the housekeeper's room.

In describing to her all the grandeur of — — and her mansion,
with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the
improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the
gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. — very attentive
listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she
heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as
soon as she could. To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,
and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine
their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantle-piece, the
interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last however. The
gentlemen did approach; and when Mr. — walked into the room,
— felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking
of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The
officers of the ----shire were in general very creditable,
gentleman-like set, and the best of them were of the present party; but
Mr. — was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and
walk, as _they_ were superior to the broad-faced stuffy uncle —,
breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.

Mr. — was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned, and — was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being wet night, and on the
probability of rainy season, made her feel that the commonest,
dullest, most thread-bare topic might be rendered interesting by the
skill of the speaker.

With such rivals for the notice of the fair, as Mr. — and the
officers, Mr. — seemed likely to sink into insignificance; to the
young ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals
kind listener in Mrs. —, and was, by her watchfulness, most
abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.

When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her
in return, by sitting down to whist.

know little of the game, at present," said he, "but shall be glad
to improve myself, for in my situation of life----" Mrs. — was
very thankful for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.

Mr. — did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he
received at the other table between — and —. At first there
seemed danger of —'s engrossing him entirely, for she was most
determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,
she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets
and exclaiming after prizes, to have attention for any one in
particular. Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. — was
therefore at leisure to talk to —, and she was very willing to
hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to
be told, the history of his acquaintance with Mr. —. She dared not
even mention that gentleman. Her curiosity however was unexpectedly
relieved. Mr. — began the subject himself. He inquired how far
— was from —; and, after receiving her answer, asked in
an hesitating manner how long Mr. — had been staying there.

"About month," said —; and then, unwilling to let the subject
drop, added, "— is man of very large property in —,
understand."

"Yes," replied —;--"his estate there is noble one. clear ten
thousand per annum. You could not have met with person more capable of
giving you certain information on that head than have been
connected with his family in particular manner from my infancy."

"You may well be surprised, — —, at such an assertion, after
seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting
you much acquainted with Mr. —?"

"As much as ever wish to be," cried — have spent
four days in the same house with him, and think him very
disagreeable."

have no right to give _my_ opinion," said —, "as to his being
agreeable or otherwise. am not qualified to form one. have known him
too long and too well to be fair judge. It is impossible for _me_ to
be impartial. But believe your opinion of him would in general
perhaps you would not express it quite so strongly
anywhere you are in your own family."

"Upon my word say no more _here_ than might say in any house in the
neighbourhood, except —. He is not at all liked in
—. Every body is disgusted with his pride. You will not find
him more favourably spoken of by any one."

cannot pretend to be sorry," said —, after short
interruption, "that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond
their deserts; but with _him_ believe it does not often happen. The
world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his
high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chuses to be seen."

should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an
ill-tempered man." — only shook his head.

wonder," said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, "whether he is
likely to be in this country much longer."

do not at all know; but _heard_ nothing of his going away when
was at —. hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will
not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood."

"Oh! is not for _me_ to be driven away by Mr. —. If _he_
wishes to avoid seeing _me_, he must go. We are not on friendly terms,
and it always gives me pain to meet him, but have no reason for
avoiding _him_ but what might proclaim to all the world; sense of
very great ill usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he is.
His father, — —, the late Mr. —, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend ever had; and can never be
in company with this Mr. — without being grieved to the soul by
thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has been
scandalous; but verily believe could forgive him any thing and every
thing, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory
of his father."

— found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with
all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented farther inquiry.

Mr. — began to speak on more general topics, —, the
neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that he
had yet seen, and speaking of the latter especially, with gentle but
very intelligible gallantry.

"It was the prospect of constant society, and good society," he added,
"which was my chief inducement to enter the ----shire. knew it to be
most respectable, agreeable corps, and my friend — tempted me
farther by his account of their present quarters, and the very great
attentions and excellent acquaintance — had procured them.
Society, own, is necessary to me. have been disappointed man, and
my spirits will not bear solitude. _must_ have employment and society.
military life is not what was intended for, but circumstances have
now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my
was brought up for the church, and should at this time have been in
possession of most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we
were speaking of just now."

"Yes--the late Mr. — bequeathed me the next presentation of the best
living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to provide for me amply,
and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given
elsewhere."

"Good heavens!" cried —; "but how could _that_ could
his will be did not you seek legal redress?"

"There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to
give me no hope from law. man of honour could not have doubted the
intention, but Mr. — chose to doubt to treat it as merely
conditional recommendation, and to assert that had forfeited all claim
to it by extravagance, imprudence, in short any thing or nothing.
Certain it is, that the living became vacant two years ago, exactly as
was of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no
less certain is it, that cannot accuse myself of having really done
any thing to deserve to lose it. have warm, unguarded temper, and
may perhaps have sometimes spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too
freely. can recal nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are very
different sort of men, and that he hates me."

"Some time or other he _will_ it shall not be by _me_. Till
can forget his father, can never defy or expose _him_."

— honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than
ever as he expressed them.

"But what," said she, after pause, "can have been his
can have induced him to behave so cruelly?"

thorough, determined dislike of dislike which cannot but
attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. — liked me
less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father's uncommon
attachment to me, irritated him believe very early in life. He had not
temper to bear the sort of competition in which we sort of
preference which was often given me."

had not thought Mr. — so bad as have never liked
him, had not thought so very ill of had supposed him to be
despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of
descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as
this!"

After few minutes reflection, however, she continued, _do_ remember
his boasting one day, at —, of the implacability of his
resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition must
be dreadful."

will not trust myself on the subject," replied —, can
hardly be just to him."

— was again deep in thought, and after time exclaimed, "—
treat in such manner, the god-son, the friend, the favourite of his
could have added, young man too, like _you_, whose very
countenance may vouch for your being she contented
herself with "— one, too, who had probably been his own companion from
childhood, connected together, as think you said, in the closest
manner!"

"We were born in the same parish, within the same park, the greatest
part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the same house,
sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. _My_
father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. —,
appears to do so much credit he gave up every thing to be of use
to the late Mr. —, and devoted all his time to the care of the
— property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. —, most
intimate, confidential friend. Mr. — often acknowledged himself to
be under the greatest obligations to my father's active superintendance,
and when immediately before my father's death, Mr. — gave him
voluntary promise of providing for me, am convinced that he felt it to
be as much debt of gratitude to _him_, as of affection to myself."

"How strange!" cried —. "How wonder that the very
pride of this Mr. — has not made him just to from no better
motive, that he should not have been too proud to be
dishonesty must call it."

"It _is_ —,--"for almost all his actions may
be traced to pride has often been his best friend. It has
connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling. But we are none
of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me, there were stronger
impulses even than pride."

"Yes. It has often led him to be liberal and give his
money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve
the poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride, for he is very proud of what
his father was, have done this. Not to appear to disgrace his family, to
degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the
— —, is powerful motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride,
which with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him very kind and careful
guardian of his sister; and you will hear him generally cried up as the
most attentive and best of brothers."

He shook his wish could call her amiable. It gives me pain
to speak ill of —. But she is too much like her
very child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and
extremely fond of me; and have devoted hours and hours to her
amusement. But she is nothing to me now. She is handsome girl, about
fifteen or sixteen, and understand highly accomplished. Since her
father's death, her home has been —, where lady lives with her,
and superintends her education."

After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, — could not
help reverting once more to the first, and saying,

am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. —! How can Mr. —,
who seems good humour itself, and is, really believe, truly amiable,
be in friendship with such man? How can they suit each you
know Mr. —?"

"He is sweet tempered, amiable, charming man. He cannot know what Mr.
— is."

"Probably Mr. — can please where he chuses. He does not
want abilities. He can be conversible companion if he thinks it worth
his while. Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is
very different man from what he is to the less prosperous. His pride
never deserts him; but with the rich, he is liberal-minded, just,
sincere, rational, honourable, and perhaps
something for fortune and figure."

The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round
the other table, and Mr. — took his station between his cousin
— and Mrs. —.--— usual inquiries as to his success were
made by the latter. It had not been very great; he had lost every point;
but when Mrs. — began to express her concern thereupon, he assured
her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least importance,
that he considered the money as mere trifle, and begged she would not
make herself uneasy.

know very well, madam," said he, "that when persons sit down to
card table, they must take their chance of these happily
am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object. There
are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to —
— de —, am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
little matters."

Mr. —'s attention was caught; and after observing Mr. — for
few moments, he asked — in low voice whether her relation
were very intimately acquainted with the family of de —.

"— — de —," she replied, "has very lately given him
living. hardly know how Mr. — was first introduced to her
notice, but he certainly has not known her long."

"You know of course that — — de — and — — —
were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr. —."

"No, indeed, did knew nothing at all of — —'s
connections. never heard of her existence till the day before
yesterday."

"Her daughter, — de —, will have very large fortune, and it is
believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates."

This information made — smile, as she thought of poor —
—. Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and useless her
affection for his sister and her praise of himself, if he were already
self-destined to another.

"Mr. —," said she, "speaks highly both of — — and her
daughter; but from some particulars that he has related of her ladyship,
suspect his gratitude misleads him, and that in spite of her being his
patroness, she is an arrogant, conceited woman."

believe her to be both in great degree," replied —; have
not seen her for many years, but very well remember that never liked
her, and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent. She has the
reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but rather believe
she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from
her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride of her nephew, who
chuses that every one connected with him should have an understanding of
the first class."

— allowed that he had given very rational account of it, and
they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put
an end to cards; and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr.
—'s attentions. There could be no conversation in the noise of
Mrs. —'s supper party, but his manners recommended him to every
body. Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done
gracefully. — went away with her head full of him. She could
think of nothing but of Mr. —, and of what he had told her, all
the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as
they went, for neither — nor Mr. — were once silent. —
talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the
fish she had won, and Mr. —, in describing the civility of Mr. and
Mrs. —, protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses
at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing
that he crouded his cousins, had more to say than he could well manage
before the carriage stopped at — —.

— related to — the next day, what had passed between Mr.
— and herself. — listened with astonishment and
knew not how to believe that Mr. — could be so unworthy of Mr.
—'s regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the
veracity of young man of such amiable appearance as —.--—
possibility of his having really endured such unkindness, was enough to
interest all her tender feelings; and nothing therefore remained to be
done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and
throw into the account of accident or mistake, whatever could not be
otherwise explained.

"They have both," said she, "been deceived, dare say, in some way or
other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have perhaps
misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for us to
conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them,
without actual blame on either side."

"Very true, now, my dear —, what have you got to say in
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the
clear _them_ too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of
somebody."

"Laugh as much as you chuse, but you will not laugh me out of my
opinion. My dearest —, do but consider in what disgraceful light
it places Mr. —, to be treating his father's favourite in such
whom his father had promised to provide is
impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his
character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be so
excessively deceived in him? oh! no."

can much more easily believe Mr. —'s being imposed on, than
that Mr. — should invent such history of himself as he gave me
last night; names, facts, every thing mentioned without it
be not so, let Mr. — contradict it. Besides, there was truth in his
looks."

"It is difficult is does not know what to
think."

But — could think with certainty on only one Mr.
—, if he _had been_ imposed on, would have much to suffer when the
affair became public.

The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery where this
conversation passed, by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom
they had been speaking; Mr. — and his sisters came to give their
personal invitation for the long expected ball at —, which was
fixed for the following —. The two ladies were delighted to see
their dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and
repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their
separation. To the rest of the family they paid little attention;
avoiding Mrs. — as much as possible, saying not much to —,
and nothing at all to the others. They were soon gone again, rising from
their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and
hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. —'s civilities.

The prospect of the — ball was extremely agreeable to every
female of the family. Mrs. — chose to consider it as given in
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by
receiving the invitation from Mr. — himself, instead of
ceremonious card. — pictured to herself happy evening in the
society of her two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and
— thought with pleasure of dancing great deal with Mr.
—, and of seeing confirmation of every thing in Mr. —'s
looks and behaviour. The happiness anticipated by — and —,
depended less on any single event, or any particular person, for though
they each, like —, meant to dance half the evening with Mr.
—, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and
ball was at any rate, ball. — even — could assure her family
that she had no disinclination for it.

"While can have my mornings to myself," said she, "it is
think it no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
Society has claims on us all; and profess myself one of those who
consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for every
body."

—'s spirits were so high on the occasion, that though she did
not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. —, she could not help asking
him whether he intended to accept Mr. —'s invitation, and if he
did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening's
amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no
scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading rebuke
either from the —, or — — de —, by venturing to
dance.

am by no means of opinion, assure you," said he, "that ball of
this kind, given by young man of character, to respectable people, can
have any evil tendency; and am so far from objecting to dancing myself
that shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins
in the course of the evening, and take this opportunity of soliciting
yours, — —, for the two first dances
preference which trust my cousin — will attribute to the right
cause, and not to any disrespect for her."

— felt herself completely taken in. She had fully proposed being
engaged by — for those very to have Mr. —
instead! her liveliness had been never worse timed. There was no help
for it however. Mr. —'s happiness and her own was per force
delayed little longer, and Mr. —'s proposal accepted with as
good grace as she could. She was not the better pleased with his
gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something now first
struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of
being the mistress of — —, and of assisting to form
quadrille table at —, in the absence of more eligible visitors.
The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed his increasing
civilities toward herself, and heard his frequent attempt at
compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than
gratified herself, by this effect of her charms, it was not long before
her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage
was exceedingly agreeable to _her_. — however did not chuse to
take the hint, being well aware that serious dispute must be the
consequence of any reply. Mr. — might never make the offer, and
till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.

If there had not been — ball to prepare for and talk of, the
younger — — would have been in pitiable state at this time,
for from the day of the invitation, to the day of the ball, there was
such succession of rain as prevented their walking to — once. No
aunt, no officers, no news could be sought very shoe-roses
for — were got by proxy. Even — might have found some
trial of her patience in weather, which totally suspended the
improvement of her acquaintance with Mr. —; and nothing less than
dance on —, could have made such —, —, — and
—, endurable to — and —.

Till — entered the drawing-room at — and looked in
vain for Mr. — among the cluster of red coats there assembled,
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her. The certainty of
meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that
might not unreasonably have alarmed her. She had dressed with more than
usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all
that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than
might be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the
dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted for Mr. —'s
pleasure in the —' invitation to the officers; and though this
was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was
pronounced by his friend Mr. —, to whom — eagerly applied, and
who told them that — had been obliged to go to town on business
the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with significant
smile,

do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if
he had not wished to avoid certain gentleman here."

This part of his intelligence, though unheard by —, was caught by
—, and as it assured her that — was not less answerable for
—'s absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling
of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to
the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to
forbearance, patience with —, was injury to
—. She was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and
turned away with degree of ill humour, which she could not wholly
surmount even in speaking to Mr. —, whose blind partiality
provoked her.

But — was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect
of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on her
spirits; and having told all her griefs to — —, whom she had
not seen for week, she was soon able to make voluntary transition to
the oddities of her cousin, and to point him out to her particular
notice. The two first dances, however, brought return of distress;
they were dances of mortification. Mr. —, awkward and solemn,
apologising instead of attending, and often moving wrong without being
aware of it, gave her all the shame and misery which disagreeable
partner for couple of dances can give. The moment of her release from
him was ecstacy.

She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
—, and of hearing that he was universally liked. When those dances
were over she returned to — —, and was in conversation with
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. —, who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without
knowing what she did, she accepted him. He walked away again
immediately, and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of
mind; — tried to console her.

"— would be the greatest misfortune of
find man agreeable whom one is determined to not wish me
such an evil."

When the dancing recommenced, however, and — approached to claim her
hand, — could not help cautioning her in whisper not to be
simpleton and allow her fancy for — to make her appear unpleasant
in the eyes of man of ten times his consequence. — made no
answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which
she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. —, and
reading in her neighbours' looks their equal amazement in beholding it.
They stood for some time without speaking word; and she began to
imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and at
first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would
be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk, she made
some slight observation on the dance. He replied, and was again silent.
After pause of some minutes she addressed him second time with

"It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. —.--_I_ talked about
the dance, and _you_ ought to make some kind of remark on the size of
the room, or the number of couples."

He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be
said.

"Very reply will do for the by and bye
may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public
_now_ we may be silent."

"Sometimes. One must speak little, you know. It would look odd to be
entirely silent for half an hour together, and yet for the advantage of
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the
trouble of saying as little as possible."

"Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you
imagine that you are gratifying mine?"

"Both," replied — archly; "for have always seen great
similarity in the turn of our are each of an unsocial,
taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say
something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to
posterity with all the eclat of proverb."

"This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, am sure,"
said he. "How near it may be to _mine_, cannot pretend to
think it faithful portrait undoubtedly."

He made no answer, and they were again silent till they had gone down
the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often
walk to —. She answered in the affirmative, and, unable to resist
the temptation, added, "— you met us there the other day, we had just
been forming new acquaintance."

The effect was immediate. deeper shade of hauteur overspread his
features, but he said not word, and —, though blaming herself
for her own weakness, could not go on. At length — spoke, and in
constrained manner said,

"Mr. — is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his
_making_ he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them,
is less certain."

"He has been so unlucky as to lose _your_ friendship," replied —
with emphasis, "and in manner which he is likely to suffer from all
his life."

— made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At
that moment — — — appeared close to them, meaning to pass
through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr.
— he stopt with bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his
dancing and his partner.

have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear —. Such very
superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the
first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
disgrace you, and that must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,
especially when certain desirable event, my dear — —, (glancing
at her sister and —,) shall take place. What congratulations will
then flow in! appeal to Mr. —:--but let me not interrupt you,
—.--— will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching
converse of that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me."

The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by —; but —
—'s allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his
eyes were directed with very serious expression towards — and
—, who were dancing together. Recovering himself, however, shortly,
he turned to his partner, and said,

do not think we were speaking at all. — — could not have
interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for
have tried two or three subjects already without
success, and what we are to talk of next cannot imagine."

"Books--Oh! am sure we never read the same, or not with the same
feelings."

am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be
no want of may compare our different opinions."

"No--I cannot talk of books in ball-room; my head is always full of
something else."

"The _present_ always occupies you in such it?" said he,
with look of doubt.

"Yes, always," she replied, without knowing what she said, for her
thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared
by her suddenly exclaiming, remember hearing you once say, Mr. —,
that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once created was
unappeasable. You are very cautious, suppose, as to its _being
created_."

"It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion,
to be secure of judging properly at first."

"Merely to the illustration of _your_ character," said she, endeavouring
to shake off her gravity. am trying to make it out."

She shook her head. do not get on at all. hear such different
accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly."

can readily believe," answered he gravely, "that report may vary
greatly with respect to me; and could wish, — —, that you were
not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to
fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either."

"But if do not take your likeness now, may never have another
opportunity."

would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours," he coldly replied.
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in
silence; on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for
in —'s breast there was tolerable powerful feeling towards her,
which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against
another.

They had not long separated when — — came towards her, and with
an expression of civil disdain thus accosted her,

"So, — —, hear you are quite delighted with —
—!--— sister has been talking to me about him, and asking me
thousand questions; and find that the young man forgot to tell you,
among his other communications, that he was the son of old —, the
late Mr. —'s steward. Let me recommend you, however, as friend,
not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions; for as to Mr.
—'s using him ill, it is perfectly false; for, on the contrary, he
has been always remarkably kind to him, though — — has
treated Mr. — in most infamous manner. do not know the
particulars, but know very well that Mr. — is not in the least to
blame, that he cannot bear to hear — — mentioned, and that
though my brother thought he could not well avoid including him in his
invitation to the officers, he was excessively glad to find that he had
taken himself out of the way. His coming into the country at all, is
most insolent thing indeed, and wonder how he could presume to do it.
pity you, — —, for this discovery of your favourite's guilt;
but really considering his descent, one could not expect much better."

"His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same," said
— angrily; "for have heard you accuse him of nothing worse
than of being the son of Mr. —'s steward, and of _that_, can
assure you, he informed me himself."

beg your pardon," replied — —, turning away with sneer.
"Excuse my was kindly meant."

"Insolent girl!" said — to are much mistaken if
you expect to influence me by such paltry attack as this. see
nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr.
—." She then sought her eldest sister, who had undertaken to make
inquiries on the same subject of —. — met her with smile of
such sweet complacency, glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently
marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the
instantly read her feelings, and at that moment
solicitude for —, resentment against his enemies, and every thing
else gave way before the hope of —'s being in the fairest way for
happiness.

want to know," said she, with countenance no less smiling than her
sister's, "what you have learnt about Mr. —. But perhaps you have
been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person; in which case
you may be sure of my pardon."

"No," replied —, have not forgotten him; but have nothing
satisfactory to tell you. Mr. — does not know the whole of his
history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have
principally offended Mr. —; but he will vouch for the good conduct,
the probity and honour of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that
Mr. — has deserved much less attention from Mr. — than he has
received; and am sorry to say that by his account as well as his
sister's, Mr. — is by no means respectable young man. am
afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. —'s
regard."

"This account then is what he has received from Mr. —. am
perfectly satisfied. But what does he say of the living?"

"He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard
them from Mr. — more than once, but he believes that it was left to
him _conditionally_ only."

have not doubt of Mr. —'s sincerity," said — warmly;
"but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only. Mr.
—'s defence of his friend was very able one dare say, but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, shall venture still to think of
both gentlemen as did before."

She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on
which there could be no difference of sentiment. — listened with
delight to the happy, though modest hopes which — entertained of
—'s regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence
in it. On their being joined by Mr. — himself, — withdrew
to — —; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last
partner she had scarcely replied, before Mr. — came up to them and
told her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as to
make most important discovery.

have found out," said he, "by singular accident, that there is now
in the room near relation of my patroness. happened to overhear the
gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of
this house the names of his cousin — de —, and of her mother
— —. How wonderfully these sort of things occur! Who would
have thought of my meeting nephew of — — de
— in this am most thankful that the discovery is made
in time for me to pay my respects to him, which am now going to do,
and trust he will excuse my not having done it before. My total
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology."

"Indeed am. shall intreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
believe him to be — —'s _nephew_. It will be in my power to
assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se'night."

— tried hard to dissuade him from such scheme; assuring him
that Mr. — would consider his addressing him without introduction as
an impertinent freedom, rather than compliment to his aunt; that it
was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either
side, and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. —, the superior in
consequence, to begin the — listened to her
with the determined air of following his own inclination, and when she
ceased speaking, replied thus,

"My dear — —, have the highest opinion in the world of your
excellent judgment in all matters within the scope of your
understanding, but permit me to say that there must be wide difference
between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those
which regulate the clergy; for give me leave to observe that consider
the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank
in the that proper humility of behaviour is at the
same time maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the dictates
of my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to perform what look
on as point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by your
advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide, though
in the case before us consider myself more fitted by education and
habitual study to decide on what is right than young lady like
yourself." — with low bow he left her to attack Mr. —, whose
reception of his advances she eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at
being so addressed was very evident. Her cousin prefaced his speech with
solemn bow, and though she could not hear word of it, she felt as if
hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words "apology,"
"—," and "— — de —."--— vexed her to see him
expose himself to such man. Mr. — was eyeing him with unrestrained
wonder, and when at last Mr. — allowed him time to speak, replied
with an air of distant civility. Mr. —, however, was not
discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. —'s contempt seemed
abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech, and at the
end of it he only made him slight bow, and moved another way. Mr.
— then returned to —.

have no reason, assure you," said he, "to be dissatisfied with my
reception. Mr. — seemed much pleased with the attention. He answered
me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying,
that he was so well convinced of — —'s discernment as to be
certain she could never bestow favour unworthily. It was really very
handsome thought. Upon the whole, am much pleased with him."

As — had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned
her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. —, and the
train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to,
made her perhaps almost as happy as —. She saw her in idea settled in
that very house in all the felicity which marriage of true affection
could bestow; and she felt capable under such circumstances, of
endeavouring even to like —'s two sisters. Her mother's thoughts
she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to
venture near her, lest she might hear too much. When they sat down to
supper, therefore, she considered it most unlucky perverseness which
placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find
that her mother was talking to that one person (— —) freely,
openly, and of nothing else but of her expectation that — would be
soon married to Mr. —.--— was an animating subject, and Mrs.
— seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of
the match. His being such charming young man, and so rich, and living
but three miles from them, were the first points of self-gratulation;
and then it was such comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of
—, and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as
she could do. It was, moreover, such promising thing for her younger
daughters, as —'s marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of
other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be
able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that
she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked. It was
necessary to make this circumstance matter of pleasure, because on
such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs.
— to find comfort in staying at home at any period of her life. She
concluded with many good wishes that — — might soon be equally
fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
chance of it.

In vain did — endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother's
words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in less audible
whisper; for to her inexpressible vexation, she could perceive that the
chief of it was overheard by Mr. —, who sat opposite to them. Her
mother only scolded her for being nonsensical.

"What is Mr. — to me, pray, that should be afraid of him? am
sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say
nothing _he_ may not like to hear."

"For heaven's sake, madam, speak advantage can it be to you
to offend Mr. —?--— will never recommend yourself to his friend by
so doing."

Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence. Her mother
would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone. — blushed
and blushed again with shame and vexation. She could not help frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. —, though every glance convinced her of what
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her. The expression
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to composed and
steady gravity.

At length however Mrs. — had no more to say; and — —, who
had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no
likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken.
— now began to revive. But not long was the interval of
tranquillity; for when supper was over, singing was talked of, and she
had the mortification of seeing —, after very little entreaty,
preparing to oblige the company. By many significant looks and silent
entreaties, did she endeavour to prevent such proof of
in vain; — would not understand them; such an
opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her, and she began her song.
—'s eyes were fixed on her with most painful sensations; and she
watched her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience
which was very ill rewarded at their close; for —, on receiving
amongst the thanks of the table, the hint of hope that she might be
prevailed on to favour them again, after the pause of half minute
began another. —'s powers were by no means fitted for such display;
her voice was weak, and her manner was in agonies.
She looked at —, to see how she bore it; but — was very composedly
talking to —. She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making
signs of derision at each other, and at —, who continued however
impenetrably grave. She looked at her father to entreat his
interference, lest — should be singing all night. He took the hint,
and when — had finished her second song, said aloud,

"That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long enough.
Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit."

—, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and
— sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid
her anxiety had done no of the party were now applied to.

"If said Mr. —, "were so fortunate as to be able to sing,
should have great pleasure, am sure, in obliging the company with an
air; for consider music as very innocent diversion, and perfectly
compatible with the profession of do not mean however to
assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to
music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The
rector of parish has much to the first place, he must make
such an agreement for tythes as may be beneficial to himself and not
offensive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the time
that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care
and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making
as comfortable as possible. — do not think it of light importance
that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards every
body, especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment. cannot
acquit him of that duty; nor could think well of the man who should
omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards any body connected
with the family." — with bow to Mr. —, he concluded his speech,
which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the
smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr. —
himself, while his wife seriously commended Mr. — for having
spoken so sensibly, and observed in half-whisper to — —, that
he was remarkably clever, good kind of young man.

To — it appeared, that had her family made an agreement to
expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it would
have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit, or
finer success; and happy did she think it for — and her sister
that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice, and that his
feelings were not of sort to be much distressed by the folly which he
must have witnessed. That his two sisters and Mr. —, however, should
have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough, and
she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or
the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.

The rest of the evening brought her little amusement. She was teazed by
Mr. —, who continued most perseveringly by her side, and though he
could not prevail with her to dance with him again, put it out of her
power to dance with others. In vain did she entreat him to stand up with
somebody else, and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room.
He assured her that as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it;
that his chief object was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to
her, and that he should therefore make point of remaining close to her
the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such project. She owed
her greatest relief to her friend — —, who often joined them, and
good-naturedly engaged Mr. —'s conversation to herself.

She was at least free from the offence of Mr. —'s farther notice;
though often standing within very short distance of her, quite
disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. She felt it to be the
probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. —, and rejoiced in
it.

The — party were the last of all the company to depart; and by
manoeuvre of Mrs. — had to wait for their carriages quarter of
an hour after every body else was gone, which gave them time to see how
heartily they were wished away by some of the family. Mrs. — and her
sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and
were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves. They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. — at conversation, and by so doing, threw
languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the
long speeches of Mr. —, who was complimenting Mr. — and his
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests. — said
nothing at all. Mr. —, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
Mr. — and — were standing together, little detached from the
rest, and talked only to each other. — preserved as steady
silence as either Mrs. — or — —; and even — was too
much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of "—,
how tired am!" accompanied by violent yawn.

When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. — was most pressingly
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at —; and
addressed herself particularly to Mr. —, to assure him how happy
he would make them, by eating family dinner with them at any time,
without the ceremony of formal invitation. — was all grateful
pleasure, and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of
waiting on her, after his return from —, whither he was obliged to
go the next day for short time.

Mrs. — was perfectly satisfied; and quitted the house under the
delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of
settlements, new carriages and wedding clothes, she should undoubtedly
see her daughter settled at —, in the course of three or four
months. Of having another daughter married to Mr. —, she thought
with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
— was the least dear to her of all her children; and though the
man and the match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each
was eclipsed by Mr. — and —.

The next day opened new scene at —. Mr. — made his
declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as
his leave of absence extended only to the following —, and having
no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the
moment, he set about it in very orderly manner, with all the
observances which he supposed regular part of the business. On finding
Mrs. —, —, and one of the younger girls together, soon
after breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words,

"—y hope, —, for your interest with your fair daughter —,
when solicit for the honour of private audience with her in the
course of this morning?"

Before — had time for any thing but blush of surprise, Mrs.
— instantly answered,

"Oh am sure — will be very am
sure she can have no —, want you up stairs." —
gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when —
called out,

"—ar —'am, do not beg you will not — must excuse
can have nothing to say to me that any body need not hear. am
going away myself."

"No, no, nonsense, —.--I desire you will stay where you
upon —'s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about
to escape, she added, "—, _insist_ upon your staying and hearing
Mr. —."

— would not oppose such an moment's
consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it
over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down again, and tried
to conceal by incessant employment the feelings which were divided
between distress and diversion. Mrs. — and — walked off, and as
soon as they were gone Mr. — began.

"Believe me, my dear — —, that your modesty, so far from
doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you that have your respected
mother's permission for this address. You can hardly doubt the purport
of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as
soon as entered the house singled you out as the companion of my
future life. But before am run away with by my feelings on this
subject, perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my reasons for
moreover for coming into — with the design of
selecting wife, as certainly did."

The idea of Mr. —, with all his solemn composure, being run away
with by his feelings, made — so near laughing that she could not
use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther, and
he continued:

"My reasons for marrying are, first, that think it right thing for
every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example
of matrimony in his parish. Secondly, that am convinced it will add
very greatly to my happiness; and perhaps ought to have
mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation
of the very noble lady whom have the honour of calling patroness.
Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too!) on this
subject; and it was but the very — night before left
—--between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. — was
arranging — de —'s foot-stool, that she said, 'Mr. —, you
must marry. clergyman like you must properly, chuse
gentlewoman for _my_ sake; and for your _own_, let her be an active,
useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make small
income go good way. This is my advice. Find such woman as soon as
you can, bring her to —, and will visit her.' — me, by the
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that do not reckon the notice and
kindness of — — de — as among the least of the
advantages in my power to offer. You will find her manners beyond any
thing can describe; and your wit and vivacity think must be
acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general
intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views
were directed to — instead of my own neighbourhood, where
assure you there are many amiable young women. But the fact is, that
being, as am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured
father, (who, however, may live many years longer,) could not satisfy
myself without resolving to chuse wife from among his daughters, that
the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the melancholy
event takes however, as have already said, may not be
for several years. This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and
flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem. — now nothing
remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the
violence of my affection. To fortune am perfectly indifferent, and
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since am well
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the per cents. which will not be yours till after your mother's
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head,
therefore, shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that
no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married."

"You are too hasty, —," she cried. "You forget that have made no
answer. Let me do it without farther loss of time. Accept my thanks for
the compliment you are paying me. am very sensible of the honour of
your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline
them."

am not now to learn," replied Mr. —, with formal wave of the
hand, "that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the
man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their
favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated second or even
third time. am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just
said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long."

"Upon my word, —," cried —, "your hope is rather an
extraordinary one after my declaration. do assure you that am not
one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so
daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked second
time. am perfectly serious in my could not make _me_
happy, and am convinced that am the last woman in the world who
would make _you_ were your friend — — to know me,
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
situation."

"Were it certain that — — would think so," said Mr. —
very cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all
disapprove of you. — you may be certain that when have the honour of
seeing her again shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty,
economy, and other amiable qualifications."

"Indeed, Mr. —, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You must
give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of
believing what say. wish you very happy and very rich, and by
refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your
feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of —
estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach. This matter may be
considered, therefore, as finally settled." — rising as she thus
spoke, she would have quitted the room, had not Mr. — thus
addressed her,

"When do myself the honour of speaking to you next on this subject
shall hope to receive more favourable answer than you have now given
me; though am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because
know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject man on the
first application, and perhaps you have even now said as much to
encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the
female character."

"Really, Mr. —," cried — with some warmth, "you puzzle me
exceedingly. If what have hitherto said can appear to you in the form
of encouragement, know not how to express my refusal in such way as
may convince you of its being one."

"You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your
refusal of my addresses is merely words of course. My reasons for
believing it are briefly does not appear to me that my hand
is unworthy your acceptance, or that the establishment can offer would
be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my connections
with the family of — —, and my relationship to your own, are
circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into farther
consideration that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no
means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you. Your
portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the
effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications. As must
therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me,
shall chuse to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by
suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females."

do assure you, —, that have no pretension whatever to that kind
of elegance which consists in tormenting respectable man. would
rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere. thank you
again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but
to accept them is absolutely impossible. My feelings in every respect
forbid it. Can speak plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant
female intending to plague you, but as rational creature speaking the
truth from her heart."

"You are uniformly charming!" cried he, with an air of awkward
gallantry; "and am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express
authority of both your excellent parents, my proposals will not fail of
being acceptable."

To such perseverance in wilful self-deception — would make no
reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if he
persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such manner as must be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.

Mr. — was not left long to the silent contemplation of his
successful love; for Mrs. —, having dawdled about in the vestibule
to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw — open the
door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase, than she
entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated both him and herself in
warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection. Mr. —
received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then
proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result
of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the
refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.

This information, however, startled Mrs. —;--she would have been
glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage
him by protesting against his proposals, but she dared not to believe
it, and could not help saying so.

"But depend upon it, Mr. —," she added, "that — shall be
brought to reason. will speak to her about it myself directly. She is
very headstrong foolish girl, and does not know her own interest; but
will _make_ her know it."

"Pardon me for interrupting you, —," cried Mr. —; "but if she
is really headstrong and foolish, know not whether she would
altogether be very desirable wife to man in my situation, who
naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If therefore she
actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not to
force her into accepting me, because if liable to such defects of
temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity."

"—, you quite misunderstand me," said Mrs. —, alarmed. "— is
only headstrong in such matters as these. In every thing else she is as
good natured girl as ever lived. will go directly to Mr. —, and
we shall very soon settle it with her, am sure."

She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her
husband, called out as she entered the library,

"Oh! Mr. —, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
You must come and make — marry Mr. —, for she vows she will
not have him, and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and
not have _her_."

Mr. — raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and fixed them
on her face with calm unconcern which was not in the least altered by
her communication.

have not the pleasure of understanding you," said he, when she had
finished her speech. "Of what are you talking?"

"Of Mr. — and —. — declares she will not have Mr. —,
and Mr. — begins to say that he will not have —."

"Speak to — about it yourself. Tell her that you insist upon her
marrying him."

Mrs. — rang the bell, and — — was summoned to the
library.

"Come here, child," cried her father as she appeared. have sent for
you on an affair of importance. understand that Mr. — has made
you an offer of marriage. Is it true?" — replied that it was.
"Very this offer of marriage you have refused?"

"Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon your
accepting it. Is not it so, Mrs. —?"

"An unhappy alternative is before you, —. From this day you must
be stranger to one of your mother will never see you
again if you do _not_ marry Mr. —, and will never see you again
if you _do_."

— could not but smile at such conclusion of such beginning;
but Mrs. —, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the
affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.

"What do you mean, Mr. —, by talking in this way? You promised me
to _insist_ upon her marrying him."

"My dear," replied her husband, have two small favours to request.
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the
present occasion; and secondly, of my room. shall be glad to have the
library to myself as soon as may be."

Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did
Mrs. — give up the point. She talked to — again and again;
coaxed and threatened her by turns. She endeavoured to secure — in
her interest, but — with all possible mildness declined
— sometimes with real earnestness and
sometimes with playful gaiety replied to her attacks. Though her manner
varied however, her determination never did.

Mr. —, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin
could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other
way. His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her
deserving her mother's reproach prevented his feeling any regret.

While the family were in this confusion, — — came to spend
the day with them. She was met in the vestibule by —, who, flying to
her, cried in half whisper, am glad you are come, for there is such
fun do you think has happened this — has
made an offer to —, and she will not have him."

— had hardly time to answer, before they were joined by —,
who came to tell the same news, and no sooner had they entered the
breakfast-room, where Mrs. — was alone, than she likewise began on
the subject, calling on — — for her compassion, and entreating
her to persuade her friend — to comply with the wishes of all her
family. "Pray do, my dear — —," she added in melancholy tone,
"for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me, am cruelly used,
nobody feels for my poor nerves."

"Aye, there she comes," continued Mrs. —, "looking as unconcerned
as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at —, provided
she can have her own tell you what, — —, if you take
it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way,
you will never get husband at am sure do not know who is
to maintain you when your father is shall not be able to keep
so warn have done with you from this very
told you in the library, you know, that should never speak to you
again, and you will find me as good as my word. have no pleasure in
talking to undutiful that have much pleasure indeed in
talking to any body. People who suffer as do from nervous complaints
can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what
it is always so. Those who do not complain are never
pitied."

Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any
attempt to reason with or sooth her would only increase the irritation.
She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them till
they were joined by Mr. —, who entered with an air more stately
than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls,

"Now, do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and
let Mr. — and me have little conversation together."

— passed quietly out of the room, — and — followed, but
— stood her ground, determined to hear all she could; and —,
detained first by the civility of Mr. —, whose inquiries after
herself and all her family were very minute, and then by little
curiosity, satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending
not to hear. In doleful voice Mrs. — thus began the projected
Mr. —!"--

"My dear —," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
Far be it from me," he presently continued in voice that marked his
displeasure, "to resent the behaviour of your daughter. Resignation to
inevitable evils is the duty of us all; the peculiar duty of young man
who has been so fortunate as have been in early preferment; and
trust am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling doubt of my
positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for
have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the
blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation.
You will not, hope, consider me as shewing any disrespect to your
family, my dear —, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your
daughter's favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. — the
compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.
My conduct may fear be objectionable in having accepted my dismission
from your daughter's lips instead of your own. But we are all liable to
error. have certainly meant well through the whole affair. My object
has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due
consideration for the advantage of all your family, and if my _manner_
has been at all reprehensible, here beg leave to apologise."

The discussion of Mr. —'s offer was now nearly at an end, and
— had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily
attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother.
As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed, not
by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by
stiffness of manner and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to
her, and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of
himself, were transferred for the rest of the day to — —, whose
civility in listening to him, was seasonable relief to them all, and
especially to her friend.

The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. —'s ill humour or ill
health. Mr. — was also in the same state of angry pride. —
had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did
not appear in the least affected by it. He was always to have gone on
—, and to — he still meant to stay.

After breakfast, the girls walked to — to inquire if Mr. —
were returned, and to lament over his absence from the — ball.
He joined them on their entering the town and attended them to their
aunt's, where his regret and vexation, and the concern of every body was
well talked —, however, he voluntarily acknowledged
that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self imposed.

found," said he, "as the time drew near, that had better not meet
Mr. —;--that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
many hours together, might be more than could bear, and that scenes
might arise unpleasant to more than myself."

She highly approved his forbearance, and they had leisure for full
discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they civilly
bestowed on each other, as — and another officer walked back with
them to —, and during the walk, he particularly attended to her.
His accompanying them was double advantage; she felt all the
compliment it offered to herself, and it was most acceptable as an
occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.

Soon after their return, letter was delivered to — —; it came
from —, and was opened immediately. The envelope contained
sheet of elegant, little, hot pressed paper, well covered with lady's
fair, flowing hand; and — saw her sister's countenance change as
she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages.
— recollected herself soon, and putting the letter away, tried to
join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but
— felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention
even from —; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave,
than glance from — invited her to follow her up stairs. When they
had gained their own room, — taking out the letter, said,

"This is from — —; what it contains, has surprised me
good deal. The whole party have left — by this time, and are
on their way to town; and without any intention of coming back again.
You shall hear what she says."

She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information
of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town directly,
and of their meaning to dine that day in — street, where Mr.
— had house. The next was in these words. do not pretend to
regret any thing shall leave in —, except your society, my
dearest friend; but we will hope at some future period, to enjoy many
returns of the delightful intercourse we have known, and in the mean
while may lessen the pain of separation by very frequent and most
unreserved correspondence. depend on you for that." To these high
flown expressions, — listened with all the insensibility of
distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she
saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their
absence from — would prevent Mr. —'s being there; and as
to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that — must soon
cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of his.

"It is unlucky," said she, after short pause, "that you should not be
able to see your friends before they leave the country. But may we not
hope that the period of future happiness to which — — looks
forward, may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful
intercourse you have known as friends, will be renewed with yet greater
satisfaction as — will not be detained in — by
them."

"— decidedly says that none of the party will return into
— this winter. will read it to you--

"When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which
took him to —, might be concluded in three or four days, but as we
are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when
— gets to town, he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have
determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend
his vacant hours in comfortless hotel. —ny of my acquaintance are
already there for the winter; wish could hear that you, my dearest
friend, had any intention of making one in the croud, but of that
despair. sincerely hope your — in — may abound in
the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux
will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three, of
whom we shall deprive you."

"It is evident by this," added —, "that he comes back no more this
winter."

"Why will you think so? It must be his own is his own master.
But you do not know _all_. _will_ read you the passage which
particularly hurts me. will have no reserves from _you_." "Mr. —
is impatient to see his sister, and to confess the truth, _we_ are
scarcely less eager to meet her again. really do not think —
— has her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the
affection she inspires in — and myself, is heightened into
something still more interesting, from the hope we dare to entertain of
her being hereafter our sister. do not know whether ever before
mentioned to you my feelings on this subject, but will not leave the
country without confiding them, and trust you will not esteem them
unreasonable. My brother admires her greatly already, he will have
frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing, her
relations all wish the connection as much as his own, and sister's
partiality is not misleading me, think, when call — most
capable of engaging any woman's heart. With all these circumstances to
favour an attachment and nothing to prevent it, am wrong, my dearest
—, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness
of so many?"

"What think you of _this_ sentence, my dear —?"--said — as she
finished it. "Is it not clear it not expressly declare
that — neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister; that she
is perfectly convinced of her brother's indifference, and that if she
suspects the nature of my feelings for him, she means (most kindly!) to
put me on my guard? Can there be any other opinion on the subject?"

"You shall have it in few words. — — sees that her brother is
in love with you, and wants him to marry — —. She follows him to
town in the hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he
does not care about you."

"Indeed, —, you ought to believe one who has ever seen you
together, can doubt his affection. — — am sure cannot. She is
not such simpleton. Could she have seen half as much love in Mr. —
for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes. But the case is
this. We are not rich enough, or grand enough for them; and she is the
more anxious to get — — for her brother, from the notion that
when there has been _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble in
achieving second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and
dare say it would succeed, if — de — were out of the way. But,
my dearest —, you cannot seriously imagine that because — —
tells you her brother greatly admires — —, he is in the smallest
degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on
—, or that it will be in her power to persuade him that instead of
being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend."

"If we thought alike of — —," replied —, "your
representation of all this, might make me quite easy. But know the
foundation is unjust. — is incapable of wilfully deceiving any
one; and all that can hope in this case is, that she is deceived
herself."

"That is could not have started more happy idea, since you
will not take comfort in mine. Believe her to be deceived by all means.
You have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer."

"But, my dear sister, can be happy, even supposing the best, in
accepting man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry
elsewhere?"

"You must decide for yourself," said —, "and if upon mature
deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is
more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, advise you by
all means to refuse him."

"How can you talk — faintly must know that
though should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, could
not hesitate."

did not think you that being the case, cannot consider
your situation with much compassion."

"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
required. thousand things may arise in six months!"

The idea of his returning no more — treated with the utmost
contempt. It appeared to her merely the suggestion of —'s
interested wishes, and she could not for moment suppose that those
wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence young man
so totally independent of every one.

She represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt on
the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.
—'s temper was not desponding, and she was gradually led to hope,
though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that
— would return to — and answer every wish of her heart.

They agreed that Mrs. — should only hear of the departure of the
family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman's conduct;
but even this partial communication gave her great deal of concern,
and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen
to go away, just as they were all getting so intimate together. After
lamenting it however at some length, she had the consolation of thinking
that Mr. — would be soon down again and soon dining at —,
and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration that, though
he had been invited only to family dinner, she would take care to have
two full courses.

The — were engaged to dine with the —, and again during the
chief of the day, was — — so kind as to listen to Mr. —.
— took an opportunity of thanking her. "It keeps him in good
humour," said she, "and am more obliged to you than can express."
— assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and
that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time. This was
very amiable, but —'s kindness extended farther than —
had any conception object was nothing less, than to secure her
from any return of Mr. —'s addresses, by engaging them towards
herself. Such was — —'s scheme; and appearances were so
favourable that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost
sure of success if he had not been to leave — so very soon.
But here, she did injustice to the fire and independence of his
character, for it led him to escape out of — — the next
morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to — — to throw
himself at her feet. He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins,
from conviction that if they saw him depart, they could not fail to
conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known
till its success could be known likewise; for though feeling almost
secure, and with reason, for — had been tolerably encouraging,
he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of —. His
reception however was of the most flattering kind. — — perceived
him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly
set out to meet him accidentally in the lane. But little had she dared
to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.

In as short time as Mr. —'s long speeches would allow, every
thing was settled between them to the satisfaction of both; and as they
entered the house, he earnestly entreated her to name the day that was
to make him the happiest of men; and though such solicitation must be
waved for the present, the lady felt no inclination to trifle with his
happiness. The stupidity with which he was favoured by nature, must
guard his courtship from any charm that could make woman wish for its
continuance; and — —, who accepted him solely from the pure and
disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that
establishment were gained.

— — and — — were speedily applied to for their consent;
and it was bestowed with most joyful alacrity. Mr. —'s present
circumstances made it most eligible match for their daughter, to whom
they could give little fortune; and his prospects of future wealth were
exceedingly fair. — — began directly to calculate with more
interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer
Mr. — was likely to live; and — — gave it as his decided
opinion, that whenever Mr. — should be in possession of the
— estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife
should make their appearance at —. James's. The whole family in short
were properly overjoyed on the occasion. The younger girls formed hopes
of _coming out_ year or two sooner than they might otherwise have
done; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of —'s
dying an old maid. — herself was tolerably composed. She had
gained her point, and had time to consider of it. Her reflections were
in general satisfactory. Mr. — to be sure was neither sensible nor
agreeable; his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must be
imaginary. But still he would be her thinking highly
either of men or of matrimony, marriage had always been her object; it
was the only honourable provision for well-educated young women of small
fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness, must be their
pleasantest preservative from want. This preservative she had now
obtained; and at the age of twenty-seven, without having ever been
handsome, she felt all the good luck of it. The least agreeable
circumstance in the business, was the surprise it must occasion to
— —, whose friendship she valued beyond that of any other
person. — would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though
her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such
disapprobation. She resolved to give her the information herself, and
therefore charged Mr. — when he returned to — to dinner,
to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family. promise
of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept
without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence, burst
forth in such very direct questions on his return, as required some
ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great
self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.

As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the
family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies moved
for the night; and Mrs. — with great politeness and cordiality said
how happy they should be to see him at — again, whenever his
other engagements might allow him to visit them.

"My dear —," he replied, "this invitation is particularly
gratifying, because it is what have been hoping to receive; and you
may be very certain that shall avail myself of it as soon as
possible."

They were all astonished; and Mr. —, who could by no means wish for
so speedy return, immediately said,

"But is there not danger of — —'s disapprobation here, my
good had better neglect your relations, than run the risk of
offending your patroness."

"My dear sir," replied Mr. —, am particularly obliged to you
for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so
material step without her ladyship's concurrence."

"You cannot be too much on your guard. Risk any thing rather than her
displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us
again, which should think exceedingly probable, stay quietly at home,
and be satisfied that _we_ shall take no offence."

"Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily receive
from me letter of thanks for this, as well as for every other mark of
your regard during my stay in —. As for my fair cousins,
though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, shall
now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting
my cousin —."

With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally
surprised to find that he meditated quick return. Mrs. — wished
to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of
her younger girls, and — might have been prevailed on to accept him.
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others; there was
solidity in his reflections which often struck her, and though by no
means so clever as herself, she thought that if encouraged to read and
improve himself by such an example as her's, he might become very
agreeable companion. But on the following morning, every hope of this
kind was done away. — — called soon after breakfast, and in
private conference with — related the event of the day before.

The possibility of Mr. —'s fancying himself in love with her
friend had once occurred to — within the last day or two; but
that — could encourage him, seemed almost as far from
possibility as that she could encourage him herself, and her
astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the
bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out,

The steady countenance which — — had commanded in telling her
story, gave way to momentary confusion here on receiving so direct
reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon
regained her composure, and calmly replied,

"Why should you be surprised, my dear —?--— you think it incredible
that Mr. — should be able to procure any woman's good opinion,
because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?"

But — had now recollected herself, and making strong effort
for it, was able to assure her with tolerable firmness that the prospect
of their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she wished
her all imaginable happiness.

see what you are feeling," replied —,--"you must be
surprised, very much lately as Mr. — was wishing to
marry you. But when you have had time to think it all over, hope you
will be satisfied with what have done. am not romantic you know.
never was. ask only comfortable home; and considering Mr. —'s
character, connections, and situation in life, am convinced that my
chance of happiness with him is as fair, as most people can boast on
entering the marriage state."

— quietly answered "—;"--and after an awkward pause,
they returned to the rest of the family. — did not stay much
longer, and — was then left to reflect on what she had heard. It
was long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so
unsuitable match. The strangeness of Mr. —'s making two offers
of marriage within three days, was nothing in comparison of his being
now accepted. She had always felt that —'s opinion of matrimony
was not exactly like her own, but she could not have supposed it
possible that when called into action, she would have sacrificed every
better feeling to worldly advantage. — the wife of Mr. —,
was most humiliating to the pang of friend disgracing
herself and sunk in her esteem, was added the distressing conviction
that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot
she had chosen.

— was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on what
she had heard, and doubting whether she were authorised to mention it,
when — — — himself appeared, sent by his daughter to
announce her engagement to the family. With many compliments to them,
and much self-gratulation on the prospect of connection between the
houses, he unfolded the an audience not merely wondering,
but incredulous; for Mrs. —, with more perseverance than
politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken, and —, always
unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed,

"Good —! — —, how can you tell such not you know
that Mr. — wants to marry —?"

Nothing less than the complaisance of courtier could have borne
without anger such treatment; but — —'s good breeding carried
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing courtesy.

—, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant
situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by
mentioning her prior knowledge of it from — herself; and
endeavoured to put stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters,
by the earnestness of her congratulations to — —, in which she
was readily joined by —, and by making variety of remarks on the
happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character
of Mr. —, and the convenient distance of — from —.

Mrs. — was in fact too much overpowered to say great deal while
— — remained; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings
found rapid vent. In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving
the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. —
had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy
together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two
inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole; one, that
— was the real cause of all the mischief; and the other, that
she herself had been barbarously used by them all; and on these two
points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could
console and nothing appease did that day wear out her
resentment. week elapsed before she could see — without
scolding her, month passed away before she could speak to — —
or — — without being rude, and many months were gone before she
could at all forgive their daughter.

Mr. —'s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such
as he did experience he pronounced to be of most agreeable sort; for
it gratified him, he said, to discover that — —, whom he had
been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and
more foolish than his daughter!

— confessed herself little surprised at the match; but she said
less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness;
nor could — persuade her to consider it as improbable. — and
— were far from envying — —, for Mr. — was only
clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as piece of news
to spread at —.

— — could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on
Mrs. — the comfort of having daughter well married; and she
called at — rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was,
though Mrs. —'s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been
enough to drive happiness away.

Between — and — there was restraint which kept them
mutually silent on the subject; and — felt persuaded that no
real confidence could ever subsist between them again. Her
disappointment in — made her turn with fonder regard to her
sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could
never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as
— had now been gone week, and nothing was heard of his return.

— had sent — an early answer to her letter, and was counting
the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again. The promised
letter of thanks from Mr. — arrived on —, addressed to their
father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which
twelvemonth's abode in the family might have prompted. After discharging
his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many
rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection
of their amiable neighbour, — —, and then explained that it was
merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready
to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at —, whither
he hoped to be able to return on — fortnight; for — —,
he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that she wished it to take
place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable
argument with his amiable — to name an early day for making him
the happiest of men.

Mr. —'s return into — was no longer matter of
pleasure to Mrs. —. On the contrary she was as much disposed to
complain of it as her was very strange that he should come
to — instead of to — —; it was also very inconvenient
and exceedingly hated having visitors in the house
while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the
most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. —, and they
gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. —'s continued
absence.

Neither — nor — were comfortable on this subject. Day after
day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the
report which shortly prevailed in — of his coming no more to
— the whole winter; report which highly incensed Mrs.
—, and which she never failed to contradict as most scandalous
falsehood.

Even — began to that — was that
his sisters would be successful in keeping him away. Unwilling as she
was to admit an idea so destructive of —'s happiness, and so
dishonourable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its
frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters
and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of —
— and the amusements of —, might be too much, she feared, for
the strength of his attachment.

As for —, _her_ anxiety under this suspence was, of course, more
painful than —'s; but whatever she felt she was desirous of
concealing, and between herself and —, therefore, the subject
was never alluded to. But as no such delicacy restrained her mother, an
hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of —, express her
impatience for his arrival, or even require — to confess that if he
did not come back, she should think herself very ill used. It needed all
—'s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable
tranquillity.

Mr. — returned most punctually on the — fortnight, but his
reception at — was not quite so gracious as it had been on his
first introduction. He was too happy, however, to need much attention;
and luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them
from great deal of his company. The chief of every day was spent by
him at — —, and he sometimes returned to — only in time
to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed.

Mrs. — was really in most pitiable state. The very mention of any
thing concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill humour, and
wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of. The sight of
— — was odious to her. As her successor in that house, she
regarded her with jealous abhorrence. Whenever — came to see
them she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and
whenever she spoke in low voice to Mr. —, was convinced that
they were talking of the — estate, and resolving to turn herself
and her daughters out of the house, as soon as Mr. — were dead. She
complained bitterly of all this to her husband.

"Indeed, Mr. —," said she, "it is very hard to think that —
— should ever be mistress of this house, that should be forced to
make way for _her_, and live to see her take my place in it!"

"My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for
better things. Let us flatter ourselves that may be the survivor."

This was not very consoling to Mrs. —, and, therefore, instead of
making any answer, she went on as before,

cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was
not for the entail should not mind it."

"Let us be thankful that you are preserved from state of such
insensibility."

never can be thankful, Mr. —, for any thing about the entail.
How any one could have the conscience to entail away an estate from
one's own daughters cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr.
— should _he_ have it more than anybody else?"

—:
— for —,
— —, —.


— —'s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very first
sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in — for
the winter, and concluded with her brother's regret at not having had
time to pay his respects to his friends in — before he left
the country.

Hope was over, entirely over; and when — could attend to the rest of
the letter, she found little, except the professed affection of the
writer, that could give her any comfort. — —'s praise occupied
the chief of it. Her many attractions were again dwelt on, and —
boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict
the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former
letter. She wrote also with great pleasure of her brother's being an
inmate of Mr. —'s house, and mentioned with raptures, some plans of
the latter with regard to new furniture.

—, to whom — very soon communicated the chief of all this,
heard it in silent indignation. Her heart was divided between concern
for her sister, and resentment against all the others. To —'s
assertion of her brother's being partial to — — she paid no
credit. That he was really fond of —, she doubted no more than she
had ever done; and much as she had always been disposed to like him, she
could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness
of temper, that want of proper resolution which now made him the slave
of his designing friends, and led him to sacrifice his own happiness to
the caprice of their inclinations. Had his own happiness, however, been
the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in what
ever manner he thought best; but her sister's was involved in it, as she
thought he must be sensible himself. It was subject, in short, on
which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing. She
could think of nothing else, and yet whether —'s regard had really
died away, or were suppressed by his friends' interference; whether he
had been aware of —'s attachment, or whether it had escaped his
observation; whichever were the case, though her opinion of him must be
materially affected by the difference, her sister's situation remained
the same, her peace equally wounded.

day or two passed before — had courage to speak of her feelings to
—; but at last on Mrs. —'s leaving them together, after
longer irritation than usual about — and its master, she could
not help saying,

"Oh! that my dear mother had more command over herself; she can have no
idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him. But
will not repine. It cannot last long. He will be forgot, and we shall
all be as we were before."

— looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said
nothing.

"You doubt me," cried —, slightly colouring; "indeed you have no
reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my
acquaintance, but that is all. have nothing either to hope or fear,
and nothing to reproach him with. Thank —! have not _that_ pain.
little time shall certainly try to get the better."

With stronger voice she soon added, have this comfort immediately,
that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it
has done no harm to any one but myself."

"My dear —!" exclaimed —, "you are too good. Your sweetness
and disinterestedness are really angelic; do not know what to say to
you. feel as if had never done you justice, or loved you as you
deserve."

— — eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back
the praise on her sister's warm affection.

"Nay," said —, "this is not fair. _You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if speak ill of any body. only
want to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself against it. Do not be
afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your
privilege of universal good will. You need not. There are few people
whom really love, and still fewer of whom think well. The more see
of the world, the more am dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms
my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of either merit
or sense. have met with two instances lately; one will not mention;
the other is —'s marriage. It is unaccountable! in every view it
is unaccountable!"

"My dear —, do not give way to such feelings as these. They will
ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for difference of
situation and temper. Consider Mr. —'s respectability, and
—'s prudent, steady character. Remember that she is one of
large family; that as to fortune, it is most eligible match; and be
ready to believe, for every body's sake, that she may feel something
like regard and esteem for our cousin."

"To oblige you, would try to believe almost any thing, but no one else
could be benefited by such belief as this; for were persuaded that
— had any regard for him, should only think worse of her
understanding, than now do of her heart. My dear —, Mr. — is
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well
as do; and you must feel, as well as do, that the woman who marries
him, cannot have proper way of thinking. You shall not defend her,
though it is — —. You shall not, for the sake of one
individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor
endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and
insensibility of danger, security for happiness."

must think your language too strong in speaking of both," replied
—, "and hope you will be convinced of it, by seeing them happy
together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else. You
mentioned _two_ instances. cannot misunderstand you, but intreat
you, dear —, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and
saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must not be so ready to fancy
ourselves intentionally injured. We must not expect lively young man
to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often nothing but
our own vanity that deceives us. Women fancy admiration means more than
it does."

"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but have no idea
of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."

am far from attributing any part of Mr. —'s conduct to design,"
said —; "but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others
unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness,
want of attention to other people's feelings, and want of resolution,
will do the business."

"Yes; to the last. But if go on, shall displease you by saying what
think of persons you esteem. —op me whilst you can."

cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They can
only wish his happiness, and if he is attached to me, no other woman can
secure it."

"Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides his
happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they
may wish him to marry girl who has all the importance of money, great
connections, and pride."

"Beyond doubt, they _do_ wish him to chuse — —," replied —;
"but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have
known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love
her better. But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely
they should have opposed their brother's. What sister would think
herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very
objectionable? If they believed him attached to me, they would not try
to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an
affection, you make every body acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most
unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. am not ashamed of having been
at least, it is slight, it is nothing in comparison of
what should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters. Let me take it
in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood."

— could not oppose such wish; and from this time Mr. —'s
name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.

Mrs. — still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no
more, and though day seldom passed in which — did not account
for it clearly, there seemed little chance of her ever considering it
with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what
she did not believe herself, that his attentions to — had been merely
the effect of common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw
her no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at
the time, she had the same story to repeat every day. Mrs. —'s best
comfort was, that Mr. — must be down again in the summer.

Mr. — treated the matter differently. "So, —," said he one day,
"your sister is crossed in love find. congratulate her. Next to
being married, girl likes to be crossed in love little now and then.
It is something to think of, and gives her sort of distinction among
her companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to be
long outdone by —. Now is your time. Here are officers enough at
— to disappoint all the young ladies in the country. Let —
be _your_ man. He is pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably."

"Thank you, —, but less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not
all expect —'s good fortune."

"True," said Mr. —, "but it is comfort to think that, whatever of
that kind may befal you, you have an affectionate mother who will always
make the most of it."

Mr. —'s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom,
which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the —
family. They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now
added that of general unreserve. The whole of what — had already
heard, his claims on Mr. —, and all that he had suffered from him,
was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and every body was
pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. — before they
had known any thing of the matter.

— — was the only creature who could suppose there might be any
extenuating circumstances in the case, unknown to the society of
—; her mild and steady candour always pleaded for
allowances, and urged the possibility of by everybody else
Mr. — was condemned as the worst of men.

After week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr.
— was called from his amiable — by the arrival of
—. The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his
side, by preparations for the reception of his bride, as he had reason
to hope, that shortly after his next return into —, the day
would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men. He took leave
of his relations at — with as much solemnity as before; wished
his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father
another letter of thanks.

On the following —, Mrs. — had the pleasure of receiving her
brother and his wife, who came as usual to spend the — at
—. Mr. — was sensible, gentleman-like man, greatly
superior to his sister, as well by nature as education. The —
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that man who lived by
trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so well
bred and agreeable. Mrs. —, who was several years younger than
Mrs. — and Mrs. —, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant
woman, and great favourite with all her — nieces. Between the
two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted very particular
regard. They had frequently been staying with her in town.

The first part of Mrs. —'s business on her arrival, was to
distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When this was
done, she had less active part to play. It became her turn to listen.
Mrs. — had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of. They
had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister. Two of her
girls had been on the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing
in it.

do not blame —," she continued, "for — would have got Mr.
—, if she could. But, —! Oh, sister! it is very hard to think
that she might have been Mr. —'s wife by this time, had not it
been for her own perverseness. He made her an offer in this very room,
and she refused him. The consequence of it is, that — — will have
daughter married before have, and that — estate is just as
much entailed as ever. The — are very artful people indeed,
sister. They are all for what they can get. am sorry to say it of
them, but so it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted
so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the
greatest of comforts, and am very glad to hear what you tell us, of
long sleeves."

Mrs. —, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in
the course of — and —'s correspondence with her, made her
sister slight answer, and in compassion to her nieces turned the
conversation.

When alone with — afterwards, she spoke more on the subject. "It
seems likely to have been desirable match for —," said she. am
sorry it went off. But these things happen so often! young man, such
as you describe Mr. —, so easily falls in love with pretty girl
for few weeks, and when accident separates them, so easily forgets
her, that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent."

"An excellent consolation in its way," said —, "but it will not
do for _us_. We do not suffer by _accident_. It does not often happen
that the interference of friends will persuade young man of
independent fortune to think no more of girl, whom he was violently in
love with only few days before."

"But that expression of 'violently in love' is so hackneyed, so
doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is as
often applied to feelings which arise from an acquaintance,
as to real, strong attachment. Pray, how _violent was_ Mr. —'s
love?"

never saw more promising inclination. He was growing quite
inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every time
they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own ball he
offended two or three young ladies, by not asking them to dance, and
spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an answer. Could there be
finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?"

"Oh, that kind of love which suppose him to have felt. Poor
—! am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get
over it immediately. It had better have happened to _you_, —; you
would have laughed yourself out of it sooner. But do you think she
would be prevailed on to go back with us? Change of scene might be of
perhaps little relief from home, may be as useful as
anything."

— was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded
of her sister's ready acquiescence.

hope," added Mrs. —, "that no consideration with regard to
this young man will influence her. We live in so different part of
town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go
out so little, that it is very improbable they should meet at all,
unless he really comes to see her."

"— _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his
friend, and Mr. — would no more suffer him to call on — in such
part of —! My dear aunt, how could you think of it? Mr. — may
perhaps have _heard_ of such place as — —, but he would
hardly think month's ablution enough to cleanse him from its
impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr. —
never stirs without him."

"So much the better. hope they will not meet at all. But does not —
correspond with the sister? _She_ will not be able to help calling."

But in spite of the certainty in which — affected to place this
point, as well as the still more interesting one of —'s being
withheld from seeing —, she felt solicitude on the subject which
convinced her, on examination, that she did not consider it entirely
hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes she thought it probable, that
his affection might be re-animated, and the influence of his friends
successfully combated by the more natural influence of —'s
attractions.

— — accepted her aunt's invitation with pleasure; and the
— were no otherwise in her thoughts at the time, than as she
hoped that, by —'s not living in the same house with her brother,
she might occasionally spend morning with her, without any danger of
seeing him.

The — staid week at —; and what with the —,
the —, and the officers, there was not day without its
engagement. Mrs. — had so carefully provided for the entertainment
of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to family
dinner. When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always
made part of it, of which officers Mr. — was sure to be one; and
on these occasions, Mrs. —, rendered suspicious by —'s
warm commendation of him, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing
them, from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference
of each other was plain enough to make her little uneasy; and she
resolved to speak to — on the subject before she left
—, and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such
an attachment.

To Mrs. —, — had one means of affording pleasure,
unconnected with his general powers. About ten or dozen years ago,
before her marriage, she had spent considerable time in that very part
of —, to which he belonged. They had, therefore, many
acquaintance in common; and, though — had been little there since
the death of —'s father, five years before, it was yet in his power
to give her fresher intelligence of her former friends, than she had
been in the way of procuring.

Mrs. — had seen —, and known the late Mr. — by
character perfectly well. Here consequently was an inexhaustible subject
of discourse. In comparing her recollection of —, with the
minute description which — could give, and in bestowing her
tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was
delighting both him and herself. On being made acquainted with the
present Mr. —'s treatment of him, she tried to remember something of
that gentleman's reputed disposition when quite lad, which might agree
with it, and was confident at last, that she recollected having heard
Mr. — — formerly spoken of as very proud, ill-natured
boy.

Mrs. —'s caution to — was punctually and kindly given on
the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone; after
honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went on:

"You are too sensible girl, —, to fall in love merely because you
are warned against it; and, therefore, am not afraid of speaking
openly. Seriously, would have you be on your guard. Do not involve
yourself, or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of
fortune would make so very imprudent. have nothing to say against
_him_; he is most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he
ought to have, should think you could not do better. But as it
must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all
expect you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
good conduct, am sure. You must not disappoint your father."

"Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. will take care of
myself, and of Mr. — too. He shall not be in love with me, if
can prevent it."

beg your pardon. will try again. At present am not in love with
Mr. —; no, certainly am not. But he is, beyond all comparison,
the most agreeable man ever if he becomes really attached to
believe it will be better that he should not. see the imprudence
of _that_ abominable Mr. —!--— father's opinion of me does
me the greatest honour; and should be miserable to forfeit it. My
father, however, is partial to Mr. —. In short, my dear aunt,
should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but
since we see every day that where there is affection, young people are
seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune, from entering into
engagements with each other, how can promise to be wiser than so many
of my fellow creatures if am tempted, or how am even to know that it
would be wisdom to resist? All that can promise you, therefore, is not
to be in hurry. will not be in hurry to believe myself his first
object. When am in company with him, will not be wishing. In short,
will do my best."

"Perhaps it will be as well, if you discourage his coming here so very
often. At least, you should not _remind_ your — of inviting him."

"As did the other day," said —, with conscious smile; "very
true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_. But do not imagine
that he is always here so often. It is on your account that he has been
so frequently invited this week. You know my mother's ideas as to the
necessity of constant company for her friends. But really, and upon my
honour, will try to do what think to be wisest; and now, hope you
are satisfied."

Her aunt assured her that she was; and — having thanked her for
the kindness of her hints, they parted; wonderful instance of advice
being given on such point, without being resented.

Mr. — returned into — soon after it had been quitted
by the — and —; but as he took up his abode with the —,
his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. —. His marriage was
now fast approaching, and she was at length so far resigned as to think
it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say in an ill-natured tone that
she "_wished_ they might be happy." Thursday was to be the wedding day,
and on — — — paid her farewell visit; and when she rose
to take leave, —, ashamed of her mother's ungracious and
reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected herself, accompanied her
out of the room. As they went down stairs together, — said,

am not likely to leave — for some time. Promise me, therefore, to
come to —."

— could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in the
visit.

"My father and — are to come to me in —," added —, "and
hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, —, you will be
as welcome to me as either of them."

The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for — from
the church door, and every body had as much to say or to hear on the
subject as usual. — soon heard from her friend; and their
correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that it
should be equally unreserved was impossible. — could never
address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over,
and, though determined not to slacken as correspondent, it was for the
sake of what had been, rather than what was. —'s first letters
were received with good deal of eagerness; there could not but be
curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she would
like — —, and how happy she would dare pronounce herself to
be; though, when the letters were read, — felt that —
expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen. She
wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing
which she could not praise. The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and
roads, were all to her taste, and — —'s behaviour was most
friendly and obliging. It was Mr. —'s picture of — and
— rationally softened; and — perceived that she must wait
for her own visit there, to know the rest.

— had already written few lines to her sister to announce their
safe arrival in —; and when she wrote again, — hoped it
would be in her power to say something of the —.

Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience
generally is. — had been week in town, without either seeing or
hearing from —. She accounted for it, however, by supposing that
her last letter to her friend from —, had by some accident been
lost.

"My aunt," she continued, "is going to-morrow into that part of the
town, and shall take the opportunity of calling in —-street."

She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen — —.
did not think — in spirits," were her words, "but she was very
glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming
to —. was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached her.
enquired after their brother, of course. He was well, but so much
engaged with Mr. —, that they scarcely ever saw him. found that
— — was expected to dinner. wish could see her. My visit was
not long, as — and Mrs. — were going out. dare say shall
soon see them here."

— shook her head over this letter. It convinced her, that
accident only could discover to Mr. — her sister's being in town.

Four weeks passed away, and — saw nothing of him. She endeavoured to
persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be
blind to — —'s inattention. After waiting at home every morning
for fortnight, and inventing every evening fresh excuse for her, the
visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and yet more,
the alteration of her manner, would allow — to deceive herself no
longer. The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister, will
prove what she felt.

"My dearest — will, am sure, be incapable of triumphing in
her better judgment, at my expence, when confess myself to have
been entirely deceived in — —'s regard for me. But, my
dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me
obstinate if still assert, that, considering what her behaviour
was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. do not at
all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me, but
if the same circumstances were to happen again, am sure should
be deceived again. — did not return my visit till yesterday;
and not note, not line, did receive in the mean time. When
she did come, it was very evident that she had no pleasure in it;
she made slight, formal, apology, for not calling before, said
not word of wishing to see me again, and was in every respect so
altered creature, that when she went away, was perfectly
resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. pity, though
cannot help blaming her. She was very wrong in singling me out as
she did; can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on
her side. But pity her, because she must feel that she has been
acting wrong, and because am very sure that anxiety for her
brother is the cause of it. need not explain myself farther; and
though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she
feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so
deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she may
feel on his behalf, is natural and amiable. cannot but wonder,
however, at her having any such fears now, because, if he had at
all cared about me, we must have met long, long ago. He knows of my
being in town, am certain, from something she said herself; and
yet it should seem by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to
persuade herself that he is really partial to — —. cannot
understand it. If were not afraid of judging harshly, should
be almost tempted to say, that there is strong appearance of
duplicity in all this. But will endeavour to banish every painful
thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection,
and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear
from you very soon. — — said something of his never
returning to — again, of giving up the house, but not
with any certainty. We had better not mention it. am extremely
glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at
—. Pray go to see them, with — — and —. am
sure you will be very comfortable there.

This letter gave — some pain; but her spirits returned as she
considered that — would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over. She would not
even wish for any renewal of his attentions. His character sunk on every
review of it; and as punishment for him, as well as possible
advantage to —, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr.
—'s sister, as, by —'s account, she would make him abundantly
regret what he had thrown away.

Mrs. — about this time reminded — of her promise
concerning that gentleman, and required information; and — had
such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to
herself. His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over,
he was the admirer of some one else. — was watchful enough to
see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied
with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune
permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most
remarkable charm of the young lady, to whom he was now rendering himself
agreeable; but —, less clear-sighted perhaps in his case than
in —'s, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
Nothing, on the contrary, could be more natural; and while able to
suppose that it cost him few struggles to relinquish her, she was
ready to allow it wise and desirable measure for both, and could very
sincerely wish him happy.

All this was acknowledged to Mrs. —; and after relating the
circumstances, she thus went am now convinced, my dear aunt,
that have never been much in love; for had really experienced that
pure and elevating passion, should at present detest his very name,
and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial
towards _him_; they are even impartial towards — —. cannot find
out that hate her at all, or that am in the least unwilling to think
her very good sort of girl. There can be no love in all this. My
watchfulness has been effectual; and though should certainly be more
interesting object to all my acquaintance, were distractedly in love
with him, cannot say that regret my comparative insignificance.
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. — and — take
his defection much more to heart than do. They are young in the ways
of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that
handsome young men must have something to live on, as well as the
plain."

With no greater events than these in the — family, and otherwise
diversified by little beyond the walks to —, sometimes dirty and
sometimes cold, did — and — pass away. —rch was to take
— to —. She had not at first thought very seriously of
going thither; but —, she soon found, was depending on the plan,
and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure
as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased her desire of seeing
— again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. —. There was
novelty in the scheme, and as, with such mother and such
uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, little change
was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would moreover give her
peep at —; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have
been very sorry for any delay. Every thing, however, went on smoothly,
and was finally settled according to —'s first sketch. She was
to accompany — — and his second daughter. The improvement of
spending night in — was added in time, and the plan became
perfect as plan could be.

The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,
and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he
told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.

The farewell between herself and Mr. — was perfectly friendly; on
his side even more. His present pursuit could not make him forget that
— had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the
first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner
of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what
she was to expect in — — de —, and trusting their
opinion of opinion of every always coincide,
there was solicitude, an interest which she felt must ever attach her
to him with most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced,
that whether married or single, he must always be her model of the
amiable and pleasing.

Her fellow-travellers the next day, were not of kind to make her think
him less agreeable. — — —, and his daughter —, good
humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say that
could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight
as the rattle of the chaise. — loved absurdities, but she had
known — —'s too long. He could tell her nothing new of the
wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn
out like his information.

It was journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early
as to be in —-street by noon. As they drove to Mr. —'s
door, — was at drawing-room window watching their arrival; when
they entered the passage she was there to welcome them, and —,
looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and
lovely as ever. On the stairs were troop of little boys and girls,
whose eagerness for their cousin's appearance would not allow them to
wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her
for twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and
kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and
shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.

— then contrived to sit by her aunt. Their first subject was her
sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to
her minute enquiries, that though — always struggled to support her
spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to
hope, that they would not continue long. Mrs. — gave her the
particulars also of — —'s visit in —-street, and
repeated conversations occurring at different times between — and
herself, which proved that the former had, from her heart, given up the
acquaintance.

Mrs. — then rallied her niece on —'s desertion, and
complimented her on bearing it so well.

"But, my dear —," she added, "what sort of girl is — —?
should be sorry to think our friend mercenary."

"Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs,
between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end,
and avarice begin? Last — you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get
girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary."

"If you will only tell me what sort of girl — — is, shall know
what to think."

"But he paid her not the smallest attention, till her grandfather's
death made her mistress of this fortune."

"No--why should he? If it was not allowable for him to gain _my_
affections, because had no money, what occasion could there be for
making love to girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally
poor?"

"But there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her, so
soon after this event."

man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant
decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does not object to it,
why should _we_?"

"_Her_ not objecting, does not justify _him_. It only shews her being
deficient in something or feeling."

"Well," cried —, "have it as you choose. _He_ shall be
mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish."

"No, —, that is what do _not_ choose. should be sorry, you know,
to think ill of young man who has lived so long in —."

"Oh! if that is all, have very poor opinion of young men who live in
—; and their intimate friends who live in — are not
much better. am sick of them all. Thank —! am going to-morrow
where shall find man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
neither manner nor sense to recommend him. —upid men are the only ones
worth knowing, after all."

Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the
unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in
tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.

"We have not quite determined how far it shall carry us," said Mrs.
—, "but perhaps to the —."

No scheme could have been more agreeable to —, and her
acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. "My dear, dear
aunt," she rapturously cried, "what delight! what felicity! You give me
fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are men
to rocks and mountains? Oh! what hours of transport we shall spend! —
when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without
being able to give one accurate idea of any thing. We _will_ know where
we have _will_ recollect what we have seen. —, mountains,
and rivers, shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor, when
we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling
about its relative situation. Let _our_ first effusions be less
insupportable than those of the generality of travellers."

Every object in the next day's journey was new and interesting to
—; and her spirits were in state for enjoyment; for she had
seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health,
and the prospect of her northern tour was constant source of delight.

When they left the high road for the lane to —, every eye was in
search of the —, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
The paling of — — was their boundary on one side. —
smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.

At length the — was discernible. The garden sloping to the road,
the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge, every
thing declared they were arriving. Mr. — and — appeared at
the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate, which led by
short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of the whole
party. In moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the
sight of each other. Mrs. — welcomed her friend with the liveliest
pleasure, and — was more and more satisfied with coming, when
she found herself so affectionately received. She saw instantly that her
cousin's manners were not altered by his marriage; his formal civility
was just what it had been, and he detained her some minutes at the gate
to hear and satisfy his enquiries after all her family. They were then,
with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance,
taken into the house; and as soon as they were in the parlour, he
welcomed them second time with ostentatious formality to his humble
abode, and punctually repeated all his wife's offers of refreshment.

— was prepared to see him in his glory; and she could not help
fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room, its aspect
and its furniture, he addressed himself particularly to her, as if
wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him. But though
every thing seemed neat and comfortable, she was not able to gratify him
by any sigh of repentance; and rather looked with wonder at her friend
that she could have so cheerful an air, with such companion. When Mr.
— said any thing of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed,
which certainly was not unseldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on
—. Once or twice she could discern faint blush; but in general
— wisely did not hear. After sitting long enough to admire every
article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to
give an account of their journey and of all that had happened in —,
Mr. — invited them to take stroll in the garden, which was large
and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he attended himself.
To work in his garden was one of his most respectable pleasures; and
— admired the command of countenance with which — talked
of the healthfulness of the exercise, and owned she encouraged it as
much as possible. Here, leading the way through every walk and cross
walk, and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises he
asked for, every view was pointed out with minuteness which left
beauty entirely behind. He could number the fields in every direction,
and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump. But
of all the views which his garden, or which the country, or the kingdom
could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of —,
afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly
opposite the front of his house. It was handsome modern building, well
situated on rising ground.

From his garden, Mr. — would have led them round his two meadows,
but the ladies not having shoes to encounter the remains of white
frost, turned back; and while — — accompanied him, —
took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased,
probably, to have the opportunity of shewing it without her husband's
help. It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and every
thing was fitted up and arranged with neatness and consistency of
which — gave — all the credit. When Mr. — could be
forgotten, there was really great air of comfort throughout, and by
—'s evident enjoyment of it, — supposed he must be often
forgotten.

She had already learnt that — — was still in the country. It
was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. — joining
in, observed,

"Yes, — —, you will have the honour of seeing — —
de — on the ensuing — at church, and need not say you will
be delighted with her. She is all affability and condescension, and
doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when
service is over. have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will
include you and my sister — in every invitation with which she
honours us during your stay here. Her behaviour to my dear — is
charming. We dine at — twice every week, and are never allowed to
walk home. Her ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
_should_ say, one of her ladyship's carriages, for she has several."

"— — is very respectable, sensible woman indeed," added
—, "and most attentive neighbour."

"Very true, my dear, that is exactly what say. She is the sort of
woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference."

The evening was spent chiefly in talking over — news, and
telling again what had been already written; and when it closed,
— in the solitude of her chamber had to meditate upon
—'s degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding,
and composure in bearing with her husband, and to acknowledge that it
was all done very well. She had also to anticipate how her visit would
pass, the quiet tenor of their usual employments, the vexatious
interruptions of Mr. —, and the gaieties of their intercourse with
—. lively imagination soon settled it all.

About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready
for walk, sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in
confusion; and after listening moment, she heard somebody running up
stairs in violent hurry, and calling loudly after her. She opened the
door, and met — in the landing place, who, breathless with
agitation, cried out,

"Oh, my dear —! pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for
there is such sight to be seen! will not tell you what it is. —ke
haste, and come down this moment."

— asked questions in vain; — would tell her nothing more,
and down they ran into the dining-room, which fronted the lane, in quest
of this wonder; it was two ladies stopping in low phaeton at the
garden gate.

"— is this all?" cried —. expected at least that the pigs
were got into the garden, and here is nothing but — — and her
daughter!"

"La! my dear," said — quite shocked at the mistake, "it is not —
—. The old lady is Mrs. —, who lives with them. The
other is — — —. Only look at her. She is quite little
creature. Who would have thought she could be so thin and small!"

"She is abominably rude to keep — out of doors in all this wind.
Why does she not come in?"

"Oh! — says, she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of favours
when — — — comes in."

like her appearance," said —, struck with other ideas. "She
looks sickly and she will do for him very well. She will
make him very proper wife."

Mr. — and — were both standing at the gate in
conversation with the ladies; and — —, to —'s high
diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the
greatness before him, and constantly bowing whenever — — —
looked that way.

At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and
the others returned into the house. Mr. — no sooner saw the two
girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which
— explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked
to dine at — the next day.

Mr. —'s triumph in consequence of this invitation was complete.
The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering
visitors, and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his
wife, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity of
doing it should be given so soon, was such an instance of —
—'s condescension as he knew not how to admire enough.

confess," said he, "that should not have been at all surprised by
her —'s asking us on — to drink tea and spend the evening at
—. rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it
would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as this? Who
could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there
(an invitation moreover including the whole party) so immediately after
your arrival!"

am the less surprised at what has happened," replied — —,
"from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which
my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the —, such
instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon."

Scarcely any thing was talked of the whole day or next morning, but
their visit to —. Mr. — was carefully instructing them in
what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many
servants, and so splendid dinner might not wholly overpower them.

"Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. —
— is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us, which
becomes herself and daughter. would advise you merely to put on
whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest, there is no occasion
for any thing more. — — will not think the worse of you for
being simply dressed. She likes to have the distinction of rank
preserved."

While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different
doors, to recommend their being quick, as — — very much
objected to be kept waiting for her formidable accounts of
her —, and her manner of living, quite frightened — —,
who had been little used to company, and she looked forward to her
introduction at —, with as much apprehension, as her father had
done to his presentation at —. James's.

As the weather was fine, they had pleasant walk of about half mile
across the park has its beauty and its prospects; and
— saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such
raptures as Mr. — expected the scene to inspire, and was but
slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the
house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally
cost — — — —.

When they ascended the steps to the hall, —'s alarm was every
moment increasing, and even — — did not look perfectly
courage did not fail her. She had heard nothing of
— — that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or
miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money and rank, she
thought she could witness without trepidation.

From the entrance hall, of which Mr. — pointed out, with
rapturous air, the fine proportion and finished ornaments, they followed
the servants through an anti-chamber, to the room where — —,
her daughter, and Mrs. — were —, with great
condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. — had settled it
with her husband that the office of introduction should be her's, it was
performed in proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks
which he would have thought necessary.

In spite of having been at —. James's, — — was so completely
awed, by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage
enough to make very low bow, and take his seat without saying word;
and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge
of her chair, not knowing which way to look. — found herself
quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her
— was tall, large woman, with
strongly-marked features, which might once have been handsome. Her air
was not conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them, such as to
make her visitors forget their inferior rank. She was not rendered
formidable by silence; but whatever she said, was spoken in so
authoritative tone, as marked her self-importance, and brought Mr.
— immediately to —'s mind; and from the observation of the
day altogether, she believed — — to be exactly what he had
represented.

When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and deportment
she soon found some resemblance of Mr. —, she turned her eyes on the
daughter, she could almost have joined in —'s astonishment, at her
being so thin, and so small. There was neither in figure nor face, any
likeness between the ladies. — — — was pale and sickly; her
features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very
little, except in low voice, to Mrs. —, in whose appearance
there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening
to what she said, and placing screen in the proper direction before
her eyes.

After sitting few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows,
to admire the view, Mr. — attending them to point out its
beauties, and — — kindly informing them that it was much
better worth looking at in the summer.

The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants,
and all the articles of plate which Mr. — had promised; and, as he
had likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by
her ladyship's desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish
nothing carved, and ate, and praised with delighted
alacrity; and every dish was commended, first by him, and then by —
—, who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son in law
said, in manner which — wondered — — could bear.
But — — seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and
gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved
novelty to them. The party did not supply much conversation. —
was ready to speak whenever there was an opening, but she was seated
between — and — — —--the former of whom was engaged in
listening to — —, and the latter said not word to her all
dinner time. Mrs. — was chiefly employed in watching how little
— — — ate, pressing her to try some other dish, and fearing she
were indisposed. — thought speaking out of the question, and the
gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.

When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to be
done but to hear — — talk, which she did without any
intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every
subject in so decisive manner as proved that she was not used to have
her judgment controverted. She enquired into —'s domestic
concerns familiarly and minutely, and gave her great deal of advice,
as to the management of them all; told her how every thing ought to be
regulated in so small family as her's, and instructed her as to the
care of her cows and her poultry. — found that nothing was
beneath this great —'s attention, which could furnish her with an
occasion of dictating to others. In the intervals of her discourse with
Mrs. —, she addressed variety of questions to — and
—, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew
the least, and who she observed to Mrs. —, was very genteel,
pretty kind of girl. She asked her at different times, how many sisters
she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of
them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they
had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been her
mother's maiden felt all the impertinence of her
questions, but answered them very — then
observed,

"Your father's estate is entailed on Mr. —, think. For your
sake," turning to —, am glad of it; but otherwise see no
occasion for entailing estates from the female was not thought
necessary in — — de —'s you play and sing, —
—?"

"Oh! time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our
instrument is capital one, probably superior shall try it
some your sisters play and sing?"

"Why did not you all ought all to have learned. The —
— all play, and their father has not so good an income as
you draw?"

"That is very strange. But suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother
should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters."

"No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up at home
without never heard of such thing. Your mother must
have been quite slave to your education."

— could hardly help smiling, as she assured her that had not
been the case.

"Then, who taught you? who attended to you? Without governess you must
have been neglected."

"Compared with some families, believe we were; but such of us as
wished to learn, never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to
read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be
idle, certainly might."

"Aye, no doubt; but that is what governess will prevent, and if had
known your mother, should have advised her most strenuously to engage
one. always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady
and regular instruction, and nobody but governess can give it. It is
wonderful how many families have been the means of supplying in that
way. am always glad to get young person well placed out. Four nieces
of Mrs. — are most delightfully situated through my means; and
it was but the other day, that recommended another young person, who
was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the family are quite
delighted with her. Mrs. —, did tell you of — —'s
calling yesterday to thank me? She finds — — treasure. '—
—,' said she, 'you have given me treasure.' — any of your
younger sisters out, — —?"

"All!--What, all five out at once? Very you only the
younger ones out before the elder are
younger sisters must be very young?"

"Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _she_ is full young to be much
in company. But really, —'am, think it would be very hard upon
younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society and
amusement because the elder may not have the means or inclination to
marry last born has as good right to the pleasures of
youth, as the first. — to be kept back on _such_ think it
would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of
mind."

"Upon my word," said her —, "you give your opinion very
decidedly for so young what is your age?"

"With three younger sisters grown up," replied — smiling, "your
— can hardly expect me to own it."

— — seemed quite astonished at not receiving direct answer;
and — suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever
dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.

"You cannot be more than twenty, am you need not
conceal your age."

When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables
were placed. — —, — —, and Mr. and Mrs. — sat
down to quadrille; and as — — — chose to play at cassino, the
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. — to make up her
party. Their table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. —
expressed her fears of — — —'s being too hot or too cold, or
having too much or too little light. great deal more passed at the
other table. — — was generally the mistakes
of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself. Mr. —
was employed in agreeing to every thing her — said, thanking her
for every fish he won, and apologising if he thought he won too many.
— — did not say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes
and noble names.

When — — and her daughter had played as long as they chose,
the tables were broke up, the carriage was offered to Mrs. —,
gratefully accepted, and immediately ordered. The party then gathered
round the fire to hear — — determine what weather they were
to have on the morrow. From these instructions they were summoned by the
arrival of the coach, and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr.
—'s side, and as many bows on — —'s, they departed. As
soon as they had driven from the door, — was called on by her
cousin, to give her opinion of all that she had seen at —, which,
for —'s sake, she made more favourable than it really was. But
her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means
satisfy Mr. —, and he was very soon obliged to take her —'s
praise into his own hands.

— — staid only week at —; but his visit was long enough
to convince him of his daughter's being most comfortably settled, and of
her possessing such husband and such neighbour as were not often met
with. While — — was with them, Mr. — devoted his mornings
to driving him out in his gig, and shewing him the country; but when he
went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments, and
— was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin
by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast and
dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden, or in reading
and writing, and looking out of window in his own book room, which
fronted the road. The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
— at first had rather wondered that — should not prefer
the dining-parlour for common use; it was better sized room, and had
pleasanter aspect; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent
reason for what she did, for Mr. — would undoubtedly have been
much less in his own apartment, had they sat in one equally lively; and
she gave — credit for the arrangement.

From the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and
were indebted to Mr. — for the knowledge of what carriages went
along, and how often especially — — — drove by in her phaeton,
which he never failed coming to inform them of, though it happened
almost every day. She not unfrequently stopped at the —, and had
few minutes' conversation with —, but was scarcely ever
prevailed on to get out.

Very few days passed in which Mr. — did not walk to —, and
not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise;
and till — recollected that there might be other family livings
to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many
hours. Now and then, they were honoured with call from her —,
and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during
these visits. She examined into their employments, looked at their work,
and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement
of the furniture, or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she
accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding
out that Mrs. —'s joints of meat were too large for her family.

— soon perceived that though this great lady was not in the
commission of the peace for the county, she was most active magistrate
in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by
Mr. —; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be
quarrelsome, discontented or too poor, she sallied forth into the
village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold
them into harmony and plenty.

The entertainment of dining at — was repeated about twice week;
and, allowing for the loss of — —, and there being only one card
table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart of
the first. Their other engagements were few; as the style of living of
the neighbourhood in general, was beyond the —' reach. This
however was no evil to —, and upon the whole she spent her time
comfortably enough; there were half hours of pleasant conversation with
—, and the weather was so fine for the time of year, that she
had often great enjoyment out of doors. Her favourite walk, and where
she frequently went while the others were calling on — —, was
along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was
nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and
where she felt beyond the reach of — —'s curiosity.

In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it, was to bring an
addition to the family at —, which in so small circle must be
important. — had heard soon after her arrival, that Mr. —
was expected there in the course of few weeks, and though there were
not many of her acquaintance whom she did not prefer, his coming would
furnish one comparatively new to look at in their — parties, and
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless — —'s designs on him
were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined
by — —; who talked of his coming with the greatest
satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
— — and herself.

His arrival was soon known at the —, for Mr. — was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into — —,
in order to have the earliest assurance of it; and after making his bow
as the carriage turned into the —, hurried home with the great
intelligence. On the following morning he hastened to — to pay his
respects. There were two nephews of — — to require them, for
Mr. — had brought with him — —, the younger son of
his uncle, — and to the great surprise of all the party, when
Mr. — returned the gentlemen accompanied him. — had seen
them from her husband's room, crossing the road, and immediately running
into the other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding,

may thank you, —, for this piece of civility. Mr. — would
never have come so soon to wait upon me."

— had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment,
before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly
afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. — —,
who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and
address most truly the gentleman. Mr. — looked just as he had been
used to look in —, paid his compliments, with his usual
reserve, to Mrs. —; and whatever might be his feelings towards her
friend, met her with every appearance of composure. — merely
curtseyed to him, without saying word.

— — entered into conversation directly with the
readiness and ease of well-bred man, and talked very pleasantly; but
his cousin, after having addressed slight observation on the house and
garden to Mrs. —, sat for some time without speaking to any body.
At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to enquire of
— after the health of her family. She answered him in the usual
way, and after moment's pause, added,

"My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you never
happened to see her there?"

She was perfectly sensible that he never had; but she wished to see
whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the
— and —; and she thought he looked little confused as he
answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet — —. The
subject was pursued no farther, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went
away.

— —'s manners were very much admired at the parsonage,
and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasure of
their engagements at —. It was some days, however, before they
received any invitation thither, for while there were visitors in the
house, they could not be necessary; and it was not till —-day,
almost week after the gentlemen's arrival, that they were honoured by
such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very little
of either — — or her daughter. — — had called
at the parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. — they had
only seen at church.

The invitation was accepted of course, and at proper hour they joined
the party in — —'s drawing-room. Her ladyship received them
civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so
acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact,
almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to —,
much more than to any other person in the room.

— — seemed really glad to see them; any thing was
welcome relief to him at —; and Mrs. —'s pretty friend had
moreover caught his fancy very much. He now seated himself by her, and
talked so agreeably of — and —, of travelling and staying
at home, of new books and music, that — had never been half so
well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much
spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of — — herself, as
well as of Mr. —. _His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned
towards them with look of curiosity; and that her ladyship after
while shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not
scruple to call out,

"What is that you are saying, —? What is it you are talking
of? What are you telling — —? Let me hear what it is."

"We are speaking of music, —," said he, when no longer able to avoid
reply.

"Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight.
must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.
There are few people in —, suppose, who have more true enjoyment
of music than myself, or better natural taste. If had ever learnt,
should have been great proficient. — so would —, if her health
had allowed her to apply. am confident that she would have performed
delightfully. How does — get on, —?"

am very glad to hear such good account of her," said —
—; "and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel,
if she does not practise great deal."

assure you, —," he replied, "that she does not need such advice.
She practises very constantly."

"So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when next write
to her, shall charge her not to neglect it on any account. often
tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired,
without constant practice. have told — — several times, that
she will never play really well, unless she practises more; and though
Mrs. — has no instrument, she is very welcome, as have often
told her, to come to — every day, and play on the piano-forte in
Mrs. —'s room. She would be in nobody's way, you know, in that
part of the house."

Mr. — looked little ashamed of his aunt's ill breeding, and made
no answer.

When coffee was over, — — reminded — of having
promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument. He
drew chair near her. — — listened to half song, and then
talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from
her, and moving with his usual deliberation towards the piano-forte,
stationed himself so as to command full view of the fair performer's
countenance. — saw what he was doing, and at the first
convenient pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said,

"You mean to frighten me, Mr. —, by coming in all this state to hear
me? But will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play so well.
There is stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at
the will of others. My courage always rises with every attempt to
intimidate me."

shall not say that you are mistaken," he replied, "because you could
not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and
have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know, that you
find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which in fact
are not your own."

— laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to
— —, "— cousin will give you very pretty notion of
me, and teach you not to believe word say. am particularly unlucky
in meeting with person so well able to expose my real character, in
part of the world, where had hoped to pass myself off with some degree
of credit. Indeed, Mr. —, it is very ungenerous in you to mention
all that you knew to my disadvantage in —--and, give me
leave to say, very impolitic it is provoking me to retaliate,
and such things may come out, as will shock your relations to hear."

"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried —
—. should like to know how he behaves among strangers."

"You shall hear prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
The first time of my ever seeing him in —, you must know,
was at at this ball, what do you think he did? He danced
only four dances! am sorry to pain so it was. He danced only
four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge,
more than one young lady was sitting down in want of partner. Mr.
—, you cannot deny the fact."

had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
beyond my own party."

"True; and nobody can ever be introduced in ball room. Well, —
—, what do play next? My fingers wait your orders."

"Perhaps," said —, should have judged better, had sought an
introduction, but am ill qualified to recommend myself to strangers."

"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?" said —, still
addressing — —. "Shall we ask him why man of sense and
education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend
himself to strangers?"

can answer your question," said —, "without applying to
him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble."

certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said —,
"of conversing easily with those have never seen before. cannot
catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
concerns, as often see done."

"My fingers," said —, "do not move over this instrument in the
masterly manner which see so many women's do. They have not the same
force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then
have always supposed it to be my own would not take the
trouble of practising. It is not that do not believe _my_ fingers as
capable as any other woman's of superior execution."

— smiled and said, "— are perfectly right. You have employed your
time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you, can
think any thing wanting. We neither of us perform to strangers."

Here they were interrupted by — —, who called out to know
what they were talking of. — immediately began playing again.
— — approached, and, after listening for few minutes, said
to —,

"— — would not play at all amiss, if she practised more, and
could have the advantage of — master. She has very good notion
of fingering, though her taste is not equal to —'s. — would have
been delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn."

— looked at — to see how cordially he assented to his
cousin's praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to —
— — she derived this comfort for — —, that he might have
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.

— — continued her remarks on —'s performance, mixing
with them many instructions on execution and taste. — received
them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the
gentlemen remained at the instrument till her —'s carriage was
ready to take them all home.

— was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to —,
while Mrs. — and — were gone on business into the village,
when she was startled by ring at the door, the certain signal of
visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be
— —, and under that apprehension was putting away her
half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions,
when the door opened, and to her very great surprise, Mr. —, and Mr.
— only, entered the room.

He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologised for his
intrusion, by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to
be within.

They then sat down, and when her enquiries after — were made,
seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was absolutely
necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in this emergence
recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in —, and feeling
curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty
departure, she observed,

"How very suddenly you all quitted — last —, Mr. —!
It must have been most agreeable surprise to Mr. — to see you
all after him so soon; for, if recollect right, he went but the day
before. He and his sisters were well, hope, when you left —."

She found that she was to receive no other after short
pause, added,

think have understood that Mr. — has not much idea of ever
returning to — again?"

have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend
very little of his time there in future. He has many friends, and he is
at time of life when friends and engagements are continually
increasing."

"If he means to be but little at —, it would be better for the
neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we
might possibly get settled family there. But perhaps Mr. — did
not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same
principle."

should not be surprised," said —, "if he were to give it up, as
soon as any eligible purchase offers."

— made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his
friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the
trouble of finding subject to him.

He took the hint, and soon began with, "— seems very comfortable
house. — —, believe, did great deal to it when Mr.
— first came to —."

believe she am sure she could not have bestowed her
kindness on more grateful object."

"Yes, indeed; his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of
the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent
am not certain that consider her marrying Mr. — as the wisest
thing she ever did. She seems perfectly happy, however, and in
prudential light, it is certainly very good match for her."

"It must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy
distance of her own family and friends."

"— what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half day's
journey. Yes, call it _very_ easy distance."

should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_
of the match," cried —. should never have said Mrs. —
was settled _near_ her family."

"It is proof of your own attachment to —. Any thing beyond
the very neighbourhood of —, suppose, would appear far."

As he spoke there was sort of smile, which — fancied she
understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of — and
—, and she blushed as she answered,

do not mean to say that woman may not be settled too near her
family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many
varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the expence of
travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But that is not the
case _here_. Mr. and Mrs. — have comfortable income, but not
such one as will allow of frequent am persuaded my
friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_
the present distance."

Mr. — drew his chair little towards her, and said, "_—_ cannot
have right to such very strong local attachment. _You_ cannot have
been always at —."

— looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change of
feeling; he drew back his chair, took newspaper from the table, and,
glancing over it, said, in colder voice,

short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side
calm and soon put an end to by the entrance of —
and her sister, just returned from their walk. The surprised
them. Mr. — related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding
on — —, and after sitting few minutes longer without saying
much to any body, went away.

"What can be the meaning of this!" said —, as soon as he was
gone. "My dear — he must be in love with you, or he would never have
called on us in this familiar way."

But when — told of his silence, it did not seem very likely,
even to —'s wishes, to be the case; and after various
conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from
the difficulty of finding any thing to do, which was the more probable
from the time of year. All field sports were over. Within doors there
was — —, books, and billiard table, but gentlemen cannot be
always within doors; and in the nearness of the —, or the
pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the
two cousins found temptation from this period of walking thither
almost every day. They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their
aunt. It was plain to them all that — — came because he
had pleasure in their society, persuasion which of course recommended
him still more; and — was reminded by her own satisfaction in
being with him, as well as by his evident admiration of her, of her
former favourite — —; and though, in comparing them, she saw
there was less captivating softness in — —'s manners,
she believed he might have the best informed mind.

But why Mr. — came so often to the —, it was more difficult
to understand. It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there
ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it
seemed the effect of necessity rather than of sacrifice to
propriety, not pleasure to himself. He seldom appeared really
animated. Mrs. — knew not what to make of him. —
—'s occasionally laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was
generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
her; and as she would have liked to believe this change the effect of
love, and the object of that love, her friend —, she sat herself
seriously to work to find it watched him whenever they were at
—, and whenever he came to —; but without much success. He
certainly looked at her friend great deal, but the expression of that
look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often
doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it
seemed nothing but absence of mind.

She had once or twice suggested to — the possibility of his
being partial to her, but — always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.
— did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of
raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her
opinion it admitted not of doubt, that all her friend's dislike would
vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.

In her kind schemes for —, she sometimes planned her marrying
— —. He was beyond comparison the pleasantest man; he
certainly admired her, and his situation in life was most eligible; but,
to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. — had considerable patronage
in the church, and his cousin could have none at all.

More than once did — in her ramble within the —, unexpectedly
meet Mr. —.--— felt all the perverseness of the mischance that
should bring him where no one else was brought; and to prevent its ever
happening again, took care to inform him at first, that it was
favourite haunt of it could occur second time therefore was
very it did, and even third. It seemed like wilful
ill-nature, or voluntary penance, for on these occasions it was not
merely few formal enquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but he
actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He never
said great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking or of
listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third rencontre
that he was asking some odd unconnected her pleasure in
being at —, her love of solitary walks, and her opinion of Mr.
and Mrs. —'s happiness; and that in speaking of — and her
not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever
she came into — again she would be staying _there_ too. His words
seemed to imply it. Could he have — — in his thoughts?
She supposed, if he meant any thing, he must mean an allusion to what
might arise in that quarter. It distressed her little, and she was
quite glad to find herself at the gate in the pales opposite the
—.

She was engaged one day as she walked, in re-perusing —'s last
letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that — had not
written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. —,
she saw on looking up that — — was meeting her. Putting
away the letter immediately and forcing smile, she said,

have been making the tour of the —," he replied, "as generally
do every year, and intend to close it with call at the —. Are
you going much farther?"

— accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the —
together.

"Yes--if — does not put it off again. But am at his disposal. He
arranges the business just as he pleases."

"— if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least
great pleasure in the power of choice. do not know any body who seems
more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr. —."

"He likes to have his own way very well," replied — —.
"But so we all do. It is only that he has better means of having it than
many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor. speak
feelingly. younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
dependence."

"In my opinion, the younger son of an — can know very little of
either. Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and
dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose, or procuring any thing you had fancy for?"

"These are home perhaps cannot say that have
experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater
weight, may suffer from the want of money. —r sons cannot marry
where they like."

"Unless where they like women of fortune, which think they very often
do."

"Our habits of expence make us too dependant, and there are not many in
my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to
money."

"Is this," thought —, "meant for me?" and she coloured at the
idea; but, recovering herself, said in lively tone, "— pray, what is
the usual price of an —'s younger son? Unless the elder brother is
very sickly, suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds."

He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped. To interrupt
silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed,
she soon afterwards said,

imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of
having somebody at his disposal. wonder he does not marry, to secure
lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps his sister does as well
for the present, and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he
likes with her."

"No," said — —, "that is an advantage which he must
divide with me. am joined with him in the guardianship of — —."

"Are you, indeed? — pray what sort of guardians do you make? Does your
charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of her age, are sometimes
little difficult to manage, and if she has the true — spirit, she
may like to have her own way."

As she spoke, she observed him looking at her earnestly, and the manner
in which he immediately asked her why she supposed — — likely to
give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she had somehow or other
got pretty near the truth. She directly replied,

"You need not be frightened. never heard any harm of her; and dare
say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. She is
very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. — and
— —. think have heard you say that you know them."

know them little. Their brother is pleasant gentleman-like
is great friend of —'s."

"Oh! yes," said — — is uncommonly kind to Mr.
—, and takes prodigious deal of care of him."

"Care of really believe — _does_ take care of him in
those points where he most wants care. From something that he told me in
our journey hither, have reason to think — very much indebted to
him. But ought to beg his pardon, for have no right to suppose that
— was the person meant. It was all conjecture."

"It is circumstance which — of course would not wish to be
generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady's family,
it would be an unpleasant thing."

"— remember that have not much reason for supposing it to be
—. What he told me was merely this; that he congratulated himself
on having lately saved friend from the inconveniences of most
imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other
particulars, and only suspected it to be — from believing him
the kind of young man to get into scrape of that sort, and from
knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer."

understood that there were some very strong objections against the
lady."

"He did not talk to me of his own arts," said — smiling. "He
only told me, what have now told you."

— made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
indignation. After watching her little, — asked her why she
was so thoughtful.

am thinking of what you have been telling me," said she. "Your
cousin's conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the judge?"

do not see what right Mr. — had to decide on the propriety of
his friend's inclination, or why, upon his own judgment alone, he was to
determine and direct in what manner that friend was to be happy." "But,"
she continued, recollecting herself, "as we know none of the
particulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to be supposed
that there was much affection in the case."

"That is not an unnatural surmise," said —, "but it is
lessening the honour of my cousin's triumph very sadly."

This was spoken jestingly, but it appeared to her so just picture of
Mr. —, that she would not trust herself with an answer; and,
therefore, abruptly changing the conversation, talked on indifferent
matters till they reached the parsonage. There, shut into her own room,
as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption
of all that she had heard. It was not to be supposed that any other
people could be meant than those with whom she was connected. There
could not exist in the world _two_ men, over whom Mr. — could have
such boundless influence. That he had been concerned in the measures
taken to separate Mr. — and —, she had never doubted; but she
had always attributed to — — the principal design and
arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him,
_he_ was the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause of all that
— had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He had ruined for
while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart
in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have
inflicted.

"There were some very strong objections against the lady," were —
—'s words, and these strong objections probably were, her
having one uncle who was country attorney, and another who was in
business in —.

"To — herself," she exclaimed, "there could be no possibility of
objection. All loveliness and goodness as she is! Her understanding
excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating. Neither could
any thing be urged against my father, who, though with some
peculiarities, has abilities which Mr. — himself need not disdain,
and respectability which he will probably never reach." When she thought
of her mother indeed, her confidence gave way little, but she would
not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr.
—, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive deeper wound from
the want of importance in his friend's connections, than from their want
of sense; and she was quite decided at last, that he had been partly
governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of
retaining Mr. — for his sister.

The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on
headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that, added to
her unwillingness to see Mr. —, it determined her not to attend her
cousins to —, where they were engaged to drink tea. Mrs. —,
seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go, and as much
as possible prevented her husband from pressing her, but Mr. —
could not conceal his apprehension of — —'s being rather
displeased by her staying at home.

When they were gone, —, as if intending to exasperate herself as
much as possible against Mr. —, chose for her employment the
examination of all the letters which — had written to her since her
being in —. They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any
revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was want of that
cheerfulness which had been used to characterize her style, and which,
proceeding from the serenity of mind at ease with itself, and kindly
disposed towards every one, had been scarcely ever clouded. —
noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an
attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal. Mr. —'s
shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict, gave her
keener sense of her sister's sufferings. It was some consolation to
think that his visit to — was to end on the day after the next,
and still greater, that in less than fortnight she should herself be
with — again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her
spirits, by all that affection could do.

She could not think of —'s leaving —, without remembering that
his cousin was to go with him; but — — had made it clear
that he had no intentions at all, and agreeable as he was, she did not
mean to be unhappy about him.

While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the
door bell, and her spirits were little fluttered by the idea of its
being — — himself, who had once before called late in
the evening, and might now come to enquire particularly after her. But
this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently
affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. — walk into the
room. In an hurried manner he immediately began an enquiry after her
health, imputing his visit to wish of hearing that she were better.
She answered him with cold civility. He sat down for few moments, and
then getting up walked about the room. — was surprised, but said
not word. After silence of several minutes he came towards her in an
agitated manner, and thus began,

"In vain have struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be
repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently admire and love
you."

—'s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient encouragement,
and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her,
immediately followed. He spoke well, but there were feelings besides
those of the heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the
subject of tenderness than of pride. His sense of her
its being the family obstacles which judgment had
always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with warmth which seemed
due to the consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to
recommend his suit.

In spite of her deeply-rooted dislike, she could not be insensible to
the compliment of such man's affection, and though her intentions did
not vary for an instant, she was at first sorry for the pain he was to
receive; till, roused to resentment by his subsequent language, she lost
all compassion in anger. She tried, however, to compose herself to
answer him with patience, when he should have done. He concluded with
representing to her the strength of that attachment which, in spite of
all his endeavours, he had found impossible to conquer; and with
expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of
his hand. As he said this, she could easily see that he had no doubt of
favourable answer. He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his
countenance expressed real security. Such circumstance could only
exasperate farther, and when he ceased, the colour rose into her
cheeks, and she said,

"In such cases as this, it is, believe, the established mode to
express sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however
unequally they may be returned. It is natural that obligation should be
felt, and if could _feel_ gratitude, would now thank you. But
have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly. am sorry to have occasioned pain to any
one. It has been most unconsciously done, however, and hope will be of
short duration. The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented the
acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming
it after this explanation."

Mr. —, who was leaning against the mantle-piece with his eyes fixed
on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than
surprise. His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of
his mind was visible in every feature. He was struggling for the
appearance of composure, and would not open his lips, till he believed
himself to have attained it. The pause was to —'s feelings
dreadful. At length, in voice of forced calmness, he said,

"— this is all the reply which am to have the honour of expecting!
might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little _endeavour_ at
civility, am thus rejected. But it is of small importance."

might as well enquire," replied she, "why with so evident design of
offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me
against your will, against your reason, and even against your character?
Was not this some excuse for incivility, if _was_ uncivil? But have
other provocations. You know have. Had not my own feelings decided
against you, had they been indifferent, or had they even been
favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept
the man, who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the
happiness of most beloved sister?"

As she pronounced these words, Mr. — changed colour; but the emotion
was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she
continued.

have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive can
excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You dare not,
you cannot deny that you have been the principal, if not the only means
of dividing them from each other, of exposing one to the censure of the
world for caprice and instability, the other to its derision for
disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest
kind."

She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
He even looked at her with smile of affected incredulity.

With assumed tranquillity he then replied, have no wish of denying
that did every thing in my power to separate my friend from your
sister, or that rejoice in my success. Towards _him_ have been
kinder than towards myself."

— disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.

"But it is not merely this affair," she continued, "on which my dislike
is founded. — before it had taken place, my opinion of you was
decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which received
many months ago from Mr. —. On this subject, what can you have to
say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
or under what misrepresentation, can you here impose upon others?"

"You take an eager interest in that gentleman's concerns," said — in
less tranquil tone, and with heightened colour.

"Who that knows what his misfortunes have been, can help feeling an
interest in him?"

"His misfortunes!" repeated — contemptuously; "yes, his misfortunes
have been great indeed."

"— of your infliction," cried — with energy. "You have reduced
him to his present state of poverty, comparative poverty. You have
withheld the advantages, which you must know to have been designed for
him. You have deprived the best years of his life, of that independence
which was no less his due than his desert. You have done all this! and
yet you can treat the mention of his misfortunes with contempt and
ridicule."

"— this," cried —, as he walked with quick steps across the room,
"is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you hold me!
thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this
calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps," added he, stopping in his
walk, and turning towards her, "these offences might have been
overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the
scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design. These
bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had with greater policy
concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my being
impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by
reflection, by every thing. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
Nor am ashamed of the feelings related. They were natural and just.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?
To congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life
is so decidedly beneath my own?"

— felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to
the utmost to speak with composure when she said,

"You are mistaken, Mr. —, if you suppose that the mode of your
declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared me the
concern which might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in
more gentleman-like manner."

"You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way
that would have tempted me to accept it."

Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. She went on.

"From the very beginning, from the first moment may almost say, of my
acquaintance with you, your manners impressing me with the fullest
belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the
feelings of others, were such as to form that ground-work of
disapprobation, on which succeeding events have built so immoveable
dislike; and had not known you month before felt that you were the
last man in the world whom could ever be prevailed on to marry."

"You have said quite enough, madam. perfectly comprehend your
feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been.
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best
wishes for your health and happiness."

— with these words he hastily left the room, and — heard him
the next moment open the front door and quit the house.

The tumult of her mind was now painfully great. She knew not how to
support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half an
hour. Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was
increased by every review of it. That she should receive an offer of
marriage from Mr. —! that he should have been in love with her for
so many months! so much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all
the objections which had made him prevent his friend's marrying her
sister, and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case,
was almost incredible! it was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously
so strong an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride, his
shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to —, his
unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not justify it,
and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned Mr. —, his
cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny, soon overcame the
pity which the consideration of his attachment had for moment excited.

She continued in very agitating reflections till the sound of —
—'s carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter
—'s observation, and hurried her away to her room.

— awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations
which had at length closed her eyes. She could not yet recover from the
surprise of what had happened; it was impossible to think of any thing
else, and totally indisposed for employment, she resolved soon after
breakfast to indulge herself in air and exercise. She was proceeding
directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. —'s
sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park,
she turned up the lane, which led her farther from the turnpike road.
The park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed
one of the gates into the ground.

After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was
tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and
look into the park. The five weeks which she had now passed in —, had
made great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the
verdure of the early trees. She was on the point of continuing her walk,
when she caught glimpse of gentleman within the sort of grove which
edged the park; he was moving that way; and fearful of its being Mr.
—, she was directly retreating. But the person who advanced, was now
near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced
her name. She had turned away, but on hearing herself called, though in
voice which proved it to be Mr. —, she moved again towards the
gate. He had by that time reached it also, and holding out letter,
which she instinctively took, said with look of haughty composure,
have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you.
Will you do me the honour of reading that then, with
slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of
sight.

With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity,
— opened the letter, and to her still increasing wonder,
perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper, written
quite through, in very close envelope itself was likewise
her way along the lane, she then began it. It was dated
from —, at eight o'clock in the morning, and was as follows:--

"Be not alarmed, —, on receiving this letter, by the
apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiments,
or renewal of those offers, which were last night so disgusting to
you. write without any intention of paining you, or humbling
myself, by dwelling on wishes, which, for the happiness of both,
cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation,
and the perusal of this letter must occasion, should have been
spared, had not my character required it to be written and read.
You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which demand your
attention; your feelings, know, will bestow it unwillingly, but
demand it of your justice.

"Two offences of very different nature, and by no means of equal
magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first mentioned
was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, had detached
Mr. — from your the other, that had, in
defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity,
ruined the immediate prosperity, and blasted the prospects of Mr.
—.--— and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of
my youth, the acknowledged favourite of my father, young man who
had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage, and who
had been brought up to expect its exertion, would be depravity,
to which the separation of two young persons, whose affection could
be the growth of only few weeks, could bear no
from the severity of that blame which was last night so liberally
bestowed, respecting each circumstance, shall hope to be in
future secured, when the following account of my actions and their
motives has been in the explanation of them which is
due to myself, am under the necessity of relating feelings which
may be offensive to your's, can only say that am
necessity must be farther apology would be
had not been long in —, before saw, in common with
others, that — preferred your eldest sister, to any other
young woman in the it was not till the evening of the
dance at — that had any apprehension of his feeling
serious had often seen him in love that
ball, while had the honour of dancing with you, was first made
acquainted, by — — —'s accidental information, that
—'s attentions to your sister had given rise to general
expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it as certain event,
of which the time alone could be undecided. From that moment
observed my friend's behaviour attentively; and could then
perceive that his partiality for — — was beyond what had
ever witnessed in him. Your sister also look and
manners were open, cheerful and engaging as ever, but without any
symptom of peculiar regard, and remained convinced from the
evening's scrutiny, that though she received his attentions with
pleasure, she did not invite them by any participation of
_you_ have not been mistaken here, must have
been in an error. Your superior knowledge of your sister must make
the latter it be so, if have been misled by such
error, to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been
unreasonable. But shall not scruple to assert, that the serenity
of your sister's countenance and air was such, as might have given
the most acute observer, conviction that, however amiable her
temper, her heart was not likely to be easily was
desirous of believing her indifferent is will
venture to say that my investigations and decisions are not usually
influenced by my hopes or did not believe her to be
indifferent because wished believed it on impartial
conviction, as truly as wished it in objections to
the marriage were not merely those, which last night acknowledged
to have required the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my
own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to
my friend as to there were other causes of
which, though still existing, and existing to
an equal degree in both instances, had myself endeavoured to
forget, because they were not immediately before causes
must be stated, though situation of your mother's
family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison of that
total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed
by herself, by your three younger sisters, and occasionally even by
your pains me to offend you. But amidst
your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your
displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you
consolation to consider that, to have conducted yourselves so as to
avoid any share of the like censure, is praise no less generally
bestowed on you and your eldest sister, than it is honourable to
the sense and disposition of will only say farther, that
from what passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was
confirmed, and every inducement heightened, which could have led me
before, to preserve my friend from what esteemed most unhappy
left — for —, on the day following,
as you, am certain, remember, with the design of soon
part which acted, is now to be
sisters' uneasiness had been equally excited with my own; our
coincidence of feeling was soon discovered; and, alike sensible
that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, we shortly
resolved on joining him directly in —.--— accordingly
there readily engaged in the office of pointing out to
my friend, the certain evils of such described, and
enforced them however this remonstrance might have
staggered or delayed his determination, do not suppose that it
would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been
seconded by the assurance which hesitated not in giving, of your
sister's indifference. He had before believed her to return his
affection with sincere, if not with equal — has
great natural modesty, with stronger dependence on my judgment
than on his convince him, therefore, that he had deceived
himself, was no very difficult point. To persuade him against
returning into —, when that conviction had been given,
was scarcely the work of cannot blame myself for
having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct in the
whole affair, on which do not reflect with satisfaction; it is
that condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to
conceal from him your sister's being in town. knew it myself, as
it was known to — —, but her brother is even yet ignorant
of they might have met without ill consequence, is
perhaps his regard did not appear to me enough
extinguished for him to see her without some this
concealment, this disguise, was beneath is done, however,
and it was done for the this subject have nothing more
to say, no other apology to offer. If have wounded your sister's
feelings, it was unknowingly done; and though the motives which
governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient, have
not yet learnt to condemn respect to that other, more
weighty accusation, of having injured Mr. —, can only
refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my
family. Of what he has _particularly_ accused me am ignorant; but
of the truth of what shall relate, can summon more than one
witness of undoubted veracity. Mr. — is the son of very
respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the
— estates; and whose good conduct in the discharge of his
trust, naturally inclined my father to be of service to him, and on
— —, who was his god-son, his kindness was therefore
liberally bestowed. My father supported him at school, and
afterwards at —;--most important assistance, as his own
father, always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have
been unable to give him gentleman's education. My father was not
only fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always
engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the
church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
As for myself, it is many, many years since first began to think
of him in very different manner. The vicious
want of principle which he was careful to guard from the knowledge
of his best friend, could not escape the observation of young man
of nearly the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of
seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. — could not have.
Here again shall give you what degree you only can tell.
But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. — has created,
suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his
real character. It adds even another motive. My excellent father
died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr. — was to
the last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it
to me, to promote his advancement in the best manner that his
profession might allow, and if he took orders, desired that
valuable family living might be his as soon as soon as it became
vacant. There was also legacy of one thousand pounds. His own
father did not long survive mine, and within half year from these
events, Mr. — wrote to inform me that, having finally
resolved against taking orders, he hoped should not think it
unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary
advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he could not be
benefited. He had some intention, he added, of studying the law,
and must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would
be very insufficient support therein. rather wished, than
believed him to be sincere; but at any rate, was perfectly ready to
accede to his proposal. knew that Mr. — ought not to be
clergyman. The business was therefore soon settled. He resigned all
claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that he could
ever be in situation to receive it, and accepted in return three
thousand pounds. All connection between us seemed now dissolved.
thought too ill of him, to invite him to —, or admit his
society in town. In town believe he chiefly lived, but his
studying the law was mere pretence, and being now free from all
restraint, his life was life of idleness and dissipation. For
about three years heard little of him; but on the decease of the
incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he applied
to me again by letter for the presentation. His circumstances, he
assured me, and had no difficulty in believing it, were
exceedingly bad. He had found the law most unprofitable study,
and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if would
present him to the living in which he trusted there
could be little doubt, as he was well assured that had no other
person to provide for, and could not have forgotten my revered
father's intentions. You will hardly blame me for refusing to
comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition of it.
His resentment was in proportion to the distress of his
he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me
to others, as in his reproaches to myself. After this period, every
appearance of acquaintance was dropt. How he lived know not. But
last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
must now mention circumstance which would wish to forget
myself, and which no obligation less than the present should induce
me to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, feel no
doubt of your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten years my
junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother's nephew, —
—, and myself. About year ago, she was taken from
school, and an establishment formed for her in —; and last
summer she went with the lady who presided over it, to —;
and thither also went Mr. —, undoubtedly by design; for there
proved to have been prior acquaintance between him and Mrs.
—, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and by
her connivance and aid, he so far recommended himself to —,
whose affectionate heart retained strong impression of his
kindness to her as child, that she was persuaded to believe
herself in love, and to consent to an elopement. She was then but
fifteen, which must be her excuse; and after stating her
imprudence, am happy to add, that owed the knowledge of it to
herself. joined them unexpectedly day or two before the
intended elopement, and then —, unable to support the idea
of grieving and offending brother whom she almost looked up to as
father, acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine what felt
and how acted. Regard for my sister's credit and feelings
prevented any public exposure, but wrote to Mr. —, who left
the place immediately, and Mrs. — was of course removed from
her charge. Mr. —'s chief object was unquestionably my
sister's fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but cannot
help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me, was
strong inducement. His revenge would have been complete indeed.
This, madam, is faithful narrative of every event in which we
have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject
it as false, you will, hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty
towards Mr. —. know not in what manner, under what form of
falsehood he has imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to
be wondered at. Ignorant as you previously were of every thing
concerning either, detection could not be in your power, and
suspicion certainly not in your inclination. You may possibly
wonder why all this was not told you last night. But was not then
master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed.
For the truth of every thing here related, can appeal more
particularly to the testimony of — —, who from our
near relationship and constant intimacy, and still more as one of
the executors of my father's will, has been unavoidably acquainted
with every particular of these transactions. If your abhorrence of
_me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented
by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may
be the possibility of consulting him, shall endeavour to find
some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course
of the morning. will only add, — bless you.

If —, when Mr. — gave her the letter, did not expect it to
contain renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of
its contents. But such as they were, it may be well supposed how eagerly
she went through them, and what contrariety of emotion they excited.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did
she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power;
and steadfastly was she persuaded that he could have no explanation to
give, which just sense of shame would not conceal. With strong
prejudice against every thing he might say, she began his account of
what had happened at —. She read, with an eagerness which
hardly left her power of comprehension, and from impatience of knowing
what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the
sense of the one before her eyes. His belief of her sister's
insensibility, she instantly resolved to be false, and his account of
the real, the worst objections to the match, made her too angry to have
any wish of doing him justice. He expressed no regret for what he had
done which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty. It
was all pride and insolence.

But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. —, when
she read with somewhat clearer attention, relation of events, which,
if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which
bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself, her feelings
were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her. She wished
to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, "— must be false!
This cannot be! This must be the grossest when she had
gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing any thing of the
last page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that she would not
regard it, that she would never look in it again.

In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on
nothing, she walked on; but it would not do; in half minute the letter
was unfolded again, and collecting herself as well as she could, she
again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to —, and
commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
The account of his connection with the — family, was exactly
what he had related himself; and the kindness of the late Mr. —,
though she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his
own words. So far each recital confirmed the other: but when she came to
the will, the difference was great. What — had said of the living
was fresh in her memory, and as she recalled his very words, it was
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
other; and, for few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did
not err. But when she read, and re-read with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of —'s resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu, so considerable sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate. She put down the
letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be
on the probability of each with
little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again she read on.
But every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent, as to
render Mr. —'s conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of
turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.

The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to
Mr. —'s charge, exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could
bring no proof of its injustice. She had never heard of him before his
entrance into the ----shire —, in which he had engaged at the
persuasion of the young man, who, on meeting him accidentally in town,
had there renewed slight acquaintance. Of his former way of life,
nothing had been known in — but what he told himself. As to
his real character, had information been in her power, she had never
felt wish of enquiring. His countenance, voice, and manner, had
established him at once in the possession of every virtue. She tried to
recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of
integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr.
—; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those
casual errors, under which she would endeavour to class, what Mr. —
had described as the idleness and vice of many years continuance. But no
such recollection befriended her. She could see him instantly before
her, in every charm of air and address; but she could remember no more
substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood, and
the regard which his social powers had gained him in the mess. After
pausing on this point considerable while, she once more continued to
read. But, alas! the story which followed of his designs on — —,
received some confirmation from what had passed between —
— and herself only the morning before; and at last she was
referred for the truth of every particular to — —
whom she had previously received the information of his
near concern in all his cousin's affairs, and whose character she had no
reason to question. At one time she had almost resolved on applying to
him, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness of the application, and
at length wholly banished by the conviction that Mr. — would never
have hazarded such proposal, if he had not been well assured of his
cousin's corroboration.

She perfectly remembered every thing that had passed in conversation
between — and herself, in their first evening at Mr. —'s.
—ny of his expressions were still fresh in her memory. She was _now_
struck with the impropriety of such communications to stranger, and
wondered it had escaped her before. She saw the indelicacy of putting
himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions
with his conduct. She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear
of seeing Mr. —--that Mr. — might leave the country, but that
_he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the — ball
the very next week. She remembered also, that till the —
family had quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but
herself; but that after their removal, it had been every where
discussed; that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr.
—'s character, though he had assured her that respect for the
father, would always prevent his exposing the son.

How differently did every thing now appear in which he was concerned!
His attentions to — — were now the consequence of views solely and
hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer
the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at any thing.
His behaviour to herself could now have had no tolerable motive; he had
either been deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying
his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most
incautiously shewn. Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter
and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr. —, she could not
but allow that Mr. —, when questioned by —, had long ago
asserted his blamelessness in the affair; that proud and repulsive as
were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their
acquaintance, an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much
together, and given her sort of intimacy with his ways, seen any thing
that betrayed him to be unprincipled or thing that spoke him
of irreligious or immoral habits. That among his own connections he was
esteemed and even — had allowed him merit as
brother, and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of
his sister as to prove him capable of _some_ amiable feeling. That had
his actions been what — represented them, so gross violation of
every thing right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and
that friendship between person capable of it, and such an amiable man
as Mr. —, was incomprehensible.

She grew absolutely ashamed of neither — nor —
could she think, without feeling that she had been blind, partial,
prejudiced, absurd.

"How despicably have acted!" she who have prided myself on
my who have valued myself on my abilities! who have
often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my
vanity, in useless or blameable humiliating is this
how just been in love, could
not have been more wretchedly blind. But vanity, not love, has been my
with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect
of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, have courted
prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were
concerned. Till this moment, never knew myself."

From herself to —--from — to —, her thoughts were in line
which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. —'s explanation
_there_, had appeared very insufficient; and she read it again. Widely
different was the effect of second could she deny that
credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to
give in the declared himself to have been totally
unsuspicious of her sister's she could not help
remembering what —'s opinion had always could she
deny the justice of his description of —.--— felt that —'s
feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was
constant complacency in her air and manner, not often united with great
sensibility.

When she came to that part of the letter in which her family were
mentioned, in terms of such mortifying, yet merited reproach, her sense
of shame was severe. The justice of the charge struck her too forcibly
for denial, and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded, as
having passed at the — ball, and as confirming all his first
disapprobation, could not have made stronger impression on his mind
than on hers.

The compliment to herself and her sister, was not unfelt. It soothed,
but it could not console her for the contempt which had been thus
self-attracted by the rest of her as she considered that
—'s disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest
relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt
by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond any thing she
had ever known before.

After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
variety of thought; re-considering events, determining probabilities,
and reconciling herself as well as she could, to change so sudden and
so important, fatigue, and recollection of her long absence, made her
at length return home; and she entered the house with the wish of
appearing cheerful as usual, and the resolution of repressing such
reflections as must make her unfit for conversation.

She was immediately told, that the two gentlemen from — had each
called during her absence; Mr. —, only for few minutes to take
leave, but that — — had been sitting with them at least
an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her
till she could be could but just _affect_ concern in
missing him; she really rejoiced at it. — — was no
longer an object. She could think only of her letter.

The two gentlemen left — the next morning; and Mr. — having
been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was
able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of their appearing in very
good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the
melancholy scene so lately gone through at —. To — he then
hastened to console — —, and her daughter; and on his return,
brought back, with great satisfaction, message from her —,
importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of
having them all to dine with her.

— could not see — — without recollecting, that had
she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her, as her
future niece; nor could she think, without smile, of what her
ladyship's indignation would have been. "What would she have
would she have behaved?" were questions with which she amused herself.

Their first subject was the diminution of the — assure
you, feel it exceedingly," said — —; believe nobody
feels the loss of friends so much as do. But am particularly
attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to
were excessively sorry to go! But so they always are. The dear
colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but —
seemed to feel it most acutely, more think than last year. His
attachment to —, certainly increases."

Mr. — had compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which
were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.

— — observed, after dinner, that — — seemed out of
spirits, and immediately accounting for it herself, by supposing that
she did not like to go home again so soon, she added,

"But if that is the case, you must write to your mother to beg that you
may stay little longer. Mrs. — will be very glad of your
company, am sure."

am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation," replied
—, "but it is not in my power to accept must be in town
next —."

"Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. expected
you to stay two months. told Mrs. — so before you came. There
can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mrs. — could certainly
spare you for another fortnight."

"Oh! your father of course may spare you, if your mother
are never of so much consequence to father. — if you will stay
another _month_ complete, it will be in my power to take one of you as
far as —, for am going there early in —, for week; and as
— does not object to the — box, there will be very good room
for one of indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool,
should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large."

"You are all kindness, —; but believe we must abide by our
original plan."

"Mrs. —, you must send servant with them. You know always
speak my mind, and cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling
post by themselves. It is highly improper. You must contrive to send
somebody. have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of
women should always be properly guarded and attended,
according to their situation in life. When my niece — went to
— last summer, made point of her having two men servants go
with —, the daughter of Mr. —, of —, and —
—, could not have appeared with propriety in different
am excessively attentive to all those things. You must send — with
the young ladies, Mrs. —. am glad it occurred to me to mention
it; for it would really be discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone."

"Oh!--Your keeps man-servant, does am very glad you
have somebody who thinks of those things. Where shall you change
—, of you mention my name at the —,
you will be attended to."

— — had many other questions to ask respecting their journey,
and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary,
which — believed to be lucky for her; or, with mind so
occupied, she might have forgotten where she was. Reflection must be
reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it
as the greatest relief; and not day went by without solitary walk,
in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant
recollections.

Mr. —'s letter, she was in fair way of soon knowing by heart. She
studied every sentence: and her feelings towards its writer were at
times widely different. When she remembered the style of his address,
she was still full of indignation; but when she considered how unjustly
she had condemned and upbraided him, her anger was turned against
herself; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion.
His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect; but she
could not approve him; nor could she for moment repent her refusal, or
feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In her own past
behaviour, there was constant source of vexation and regret; and in
the unhappy defects of her family subject of yet heavier chagrin.
They were hopeless of remedy. Her father, contented with laughing at
them, would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his
youngest daughters; and her mother, with manners so far from right
herself, was entirely insensible of the evil. — had frequently
united with — in an endeavour to check the imprudence of —
and —; but while they were supported by their mother's indulgence,
what chance could there be of improvement? —, weak-spirited,
irritable, and completely under —'s guidance, had been always
affronted by their advice; and —, self-willed and careless, would
scarcely give them hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and vain. While
there was an officer in —, they would flirt with him; and while
— was within walk of —, they would be going there for
ever.

Anxiety on —'s behalf, was another prevailing concern, and Mr.
—'s explanation, by restoring — to all her former good
opinion, heightened the sense of what — had lost. His affection was
proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame,
unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his
friend. How grievous then was the thought that, of situation so
desirable in every respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for
happiness, — had been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own
family!

When to these recollections was added the developement of —'s
character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had
seldom been depressed before, were now so much affected as to make it
almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful.

Their engagements at — were as frequent during the last week of
her stay, as they had been at first. The very last evening was spent
there; and her — again enquired minutely into the particulars of
their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing,
and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right
way, that — thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the
work of the morning, and pack her trunk afresh.

When they parted, — —, with great condescension, wished them
good journey, and invited them to come to — again next year;
and — — — exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her
hand to both.

On — morning — and Mr. — met for breakfast few
minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of
paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.

know not, — —," said he, "whether Mrs. — has yet
expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us, but am very
certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for
it. The favour of your company has been much felt, assure you. We know
how little there is to tempt any one to our humble abode. Our plain
manner of living, our small rooms, and few domestics, and the little we
see of the world, must make — extremely dull to young lady like
yourself; but hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension,
and that we have done every thing in our power to prevent your spending
your time unpleasantly."

— was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness. She had
spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with
—, and the kind attentions she had received, must make _her_
feel the obliged. Mr. — was gratified; and with more smiling
solemnity replied,

"It gives me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your
time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most
fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior
society, and from our connection with —, the frequent means of
varying the humble home scene, think we may flatter ourselves that
your — visit cannot have been entirely irksome. Our situation
with regard to — —'s family is indeed the sort of
extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on
what footing we are. You see how continually we are engaged there. In
truth must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble
parsonage, should not think any one abiding in it an object of
compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at —."

Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was
obliged to walk about the room, while — tried to unite civility
and truth in few short sentences.

"You may, in fact, carry very favourable report of us into
—, my dear cousin. flatter myself at least that you will
be able to do so. — —'s great attentions to Mrs. — you
have been daily witness of; and altogether trust it does not appear
that your friend has drawn an on this point it will be
as well to be silent. Only let me assure you, my dear — —,
that can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in
marriage. My dear — and have but one mind and one way of
thinking. There is in every thing most remarkable resemblance of
character and ideas between us. We seem to have been designed for each
other."

— could safely say that it was great happiness where that was
the case, and with equal sincerity could add that she firmly believed
and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. She was not sorry, however, to
have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from
whom they sprung. Poor —!--it was melancholy to leave her to
such she had chosen it with her eyes open; and though
evidently regretting that her visitors were to go, she did not seem to
ask for compassion. Her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her
poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their
charms.

At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After an affectionate
parting between the friends, — was attended to the carriage by
Mr. —, and as they walked down the garden, he was commissioning
her with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks
for the kindness he had received at — in the winter, and his
compliments to Mr. and Mrs. —, though unknown. He then handed her
in, — followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when
he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies of —.

"But," he added, "you will of course wish to have your humble respects
delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you
while you have been here."

— made no door was then allowed to be shut, and
the carriage drove off.

"Good gracious!" cried —, after few minutes silence, "it seems but
day or two since we first yet how many things have
happened!"

"We have dined nine times at —, besides drinking tea there
much shall have to tell!"

Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and
within four hours of their leaving —, they reached Mr. —'s
house, where they were to remain few days.

— looked well, and — had little opportunity of studying her
spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt
had reserved for them. But — was to go home with her, and at
— there would be leisure enough for observation.

It was not without an effort meanwhile that she could wait even for
—, before she told her sister of Mr. —'s proposals. To know
that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish
—, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own
vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such temptation
to openness as nothing could have conquered, but the state of indecision
in which she remained, as to the extent of what she should communicate;
and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into
repeating something of —, which might only grieve her sister
farther.

It was the second week in —, in which the three young ladies set out
together from —-street, for the town of in —;
and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr. —'s carriage was
to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman's
punctuality, both — and — looking out of dining-room up
stairs. These two girls had been above an hour in the place, happily
employed in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on
guard, and dressing sallad and cucumber.

After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed table set
out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming,
"— not this nice? is not this an agreeable surprise?"

"— we mean to treat you all," added —; "but you must lend us the
money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there." Then shewing
her purchases: "— here, have bought this bonnet. do not think it
is very pretty; but thought might as well buy it as not. shall
pull it to pieces as soon as get home, and see if can make it up any
better."

— when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect
unconcern, "—! but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and
when have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim it with fresh,
think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it will not much signify what
one wears this summer, after the ----shire have left —, and they
are going in fortnight."

"They are going to be encamped near —; and do so want papa to
take us all there for the summer! It would be such delicious scheme,
and dare say would hardly cost any thing at all. —mma would like to
go too of all things! Only think what miserable summer else we shall
have!"

"Yes," thought —, "_that_ would be delightful scheme, indeed,
and completely do for us at once. Good —! —, and whole
campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor
regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of —."

"Now have got some news for you," said —, as they sat down to
table. "What do you think? It is excellent news, capital news, and about
certain person that we all like."

— and — looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he
need not stay. — laughed, and said,

"Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought the
waiter must not hear, as if he cared! dare say he often hears worse
things said than am going to say. But he is an ugly fellow! am glad
he is gone. never saw such long chin in my life. Well, but now for
my news: it is about dear —; too good for the waiter, is not it?
There is no danger of —'s marrying — —. There's for you! She
is gone down to her uncle at —; gone to stay. — is safe."

"— — — is safe!" added —; "safe from connection
imprudent as to fortune."

am sure there is not on _his_. will answer for it he never cared
three straws about her. Who _could_ about such nasty little freckled
thing?"

— was shocked to think that, however incapable of such
coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_
was little other than her own breast had formerly harboured and fancied
liberal!

As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was
ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their
boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of —'s and
—'s purchases, were seated in it.

"How nicely we are crammed in!" cried —. am glad bought my
bonnet, if it is only for the fun of having another bandbox! Well, now
let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way
home. — in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all,
since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any
flirting? was in great hopes that one of you would have got husband
before you came back. — will be quite an old maid soon, declare.
She is almost three and twenty! —, how ashamed should be of not
being married before three and twenty! My aunt — wants you so to
get husbands, you can't think. She says — had better have taken Mr.
—; but do not think there would have been any fun in it. —!
how should like to be married before any of you; and then would
chaperon you about to all the balls. —ar me! we had such good piece
of fun the other day at — —'s. — and me were to spend
the day there, and Mrs. — promised to have little dance in the
evening; (by the bye, Mrs. — and me are _such_ friends!) and so
she asked the two — to come, but — was ill, and so —
was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We
dressed up — in woman's clothes, on purpose to pass for
think what fun! Not soul knew of it, but —. and Mrs.
—, and — and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow
one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked! When —,
and —, and —, and two or three more of the men came in, they
did not know him in the least. —! how laughed! and so did Mrs.
—. thought should have died. — _that_ made the men suspect
something, and then they soon found out what was the matter."

With such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes, did —,
assisted by —'s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her
companions all the way to —. — listened as little as she
could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of —'s name.

Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. — rejoiced to see —
in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. —
say voluntarily to —,

Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the —
came to meet — and hear the news: and various were the subjects
which occupied them; lady — was enquiring of — across the table,
after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs. — was
doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present
fashions from —, who sat some way below her, and on the other,
retailing them all to the younger — —; and —, in voice
rather louder than any other person's, was enumerating the various
pleasures of the morning to any body who would hear her.

"Oh! —," said she, wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
as we went along, — and me drew up all the blinds, and pretended
there was nobody in the coach; and should have gone so all the way, if
— had not been sick; and when we got to the —, do think we
behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest
cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have
treated you too. — then when we came away it was such fun! thought
we never should have got into the coach. was ready to die of laughter.
— then we were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so
loud, that any body might have heard us ten miles off!"

To this, — very gravely replied, "— be it from me, my dear sister,
to depreciate such pleasures. They would doubtless be congenial with
the generality of female minds. But confess they would have no charms
for _me_. should infinitely prefer book."

But of this answer — heard not word. She seldom listened to any
body for more than half minute, and never attended to — at all.

In the afternoon — was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to
— and see how every body went on; but — steadily opposed
the scheme. It should not be said, that the — — could not be at
home half day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was
another reason too for her opposition. She dreaded seeing — again,
and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to _her_,
of the regiment's approaching removal, was indeed beyond expression. In
fortnight they were to go, and once gone, she hoped there could be
nothing more to plague her on his account.

She had not been many hours at home, before she found that the —
scheme, of which — had given them hint at the inn, was under
frequent discussion between her parents. — saw directly that her
father had not the smallest intention of yielding; but his answers were
at the same time so vague and equivocal, that her mother, though often
disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last.

—'s impatience to acquaint — with what had happened could no
longer be overcome; and at length resolving to suppress every particular
in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised,
she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr.
— and herself.

— —'s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly
partiality which made any admiration of — appear perfectly
natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings. She was
sorry that Mr. — should have delivered his sentiments in manner so
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister's refusal must have given him.

"His being so sure of succeeding, was wrong," said she; "and certainly
ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his
disappointment."

"Indeed," replied —, am heartily sorry for him; but he has
other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me.
You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?"

"But you _will_ know it, when have told you what happened the very
next day."

She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far
as they concerned — —. What stroke was this for poor —!
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that
so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here
collected in one individual. Nor was —'s vindication, though
grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
Most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error, and
seek to clear one, without involving the other.

"This will not do," said —. "You never will be able to make both
of them good for any thing. Take your choice, but you must be satisfied
with only one. There is but such quantity of merit between them; just
enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting
about pretty much. For my part, am inclined to believe it all Mr.
—'s, but you shall do as you chuse."

do not know when have been more shocked," said she. "— so
very bad! It is almost past belief. — poor Mr. —! dear —, only
consider what he must have suffered. Such disappointment! and with the
knowledge of your ill opinion too! and having to relate such thing of
his sister! It is really too distressing. am sure you must feel it
so."

"Oh! no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so
full of both. know you will do him such ample justice, that am
growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your profusion
makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will
be as light as feather."

"Poor —; there is such an expression of goodness in his
countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner."

"There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those
two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other all the
appearance of it."

never thought Mr. — so deficient in the _appearance_ of it as you
used to do."

"— yet meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided dislike
to him, without any reason. It is such spur to one's genius, such an
opening for wit to have dislike of that kind. One may be continually
abusive without saying any thing just; but one cannot be always laughing
at man without now and then stumbling on something witty."

"—, when you first read that letter, am sure you could not treat
the matter as you do now."

"Indeed could not. was uncomfortable enough. was very
uncomfortable, may say unhappy. — with no one to speak to, of what
felt, no — to comfort me and say that had not been so very weak and
vain and nonsensical as knew had! Oh! how wanted you!"

"How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions
in speaking of — to Mr. —, for now they _do_ appear wholly
undeserved."

"Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness, is most
natural consequence of the prejudices had been encouraging. There is
one point, on which want your advice. want to be told whether
ought, or ought not to make our acquaintance in general understand
—'s character."

— — paused little and then replied, "— there can be no
occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your own opinion?"

"That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. — has not authorised me to
make his communication public. On the contrary every particular relative
to his sister, was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself; and
if endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct, who
will believe me? The general prejudice against Mr. — is so violent,
that it would be the death of half the good people in —, to
attempt to place him in an amiable light. am not equal to it. —
will soon be gone; and therefore it will not signify to anybody here,
what he really is. Sometime hence it will be all found out, and then we
may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before. At present will
say nothing about it."

"You are quite right. To have his errors made public might ruin him for
ever. He is now perhaps sorry for what he has done, and anxious to
re-establish character. We must not make him desperate."

The tumult of —'s mind was allayed by this conversation. She had
got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for fortnight,
and was certain of willing listener in —, whenever she might wish
to talk again of either. But there was still something lurking behind,
of which prudence forbad the disclosure. She dared not relate the other
half of Mr. —'s letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she
had been valued by his friend. Here was knowledge in which no one could
partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than perfect
understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing off this
last incumbrance of mystery. "— then," said she, "if that very
improbable event should ever take place, shall merely be able to tell
what — may tell in much more agreeable manner himself. The
liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!"

She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real
state of her sister's spirits. — was not happy. She still cherished
very tender affection for —. Having never even fancied herself in
love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and from
her age and disposition, greater steadiness than first attachments often
boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to
every other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the
feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those
regrets, which must have been injurious to her own health and their
tranquillity.

"Well, —," said Mrs. — one day, "what is your opinion _now_ of
this sad business of —'s? For my part, am determined never to speak
of it again to anybody. told my sister — so the other day. But
cannot find out that — saw any thing of him in —. Well, he is
very undeserving young do not suppose there is the least
chance in the world of her ever getting him now. There is no talk of his
coming to — again in the summer; and have enquired of every
body too, who is likely to know."

"Oh, well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come. Though
shall always say that he used my daughter extremely ill; and if was
her, would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, am sure
— will die of broken heart, and then he will be sorry for what he
has done."

But as — could not receive comfort from any such expectation,
she made no answer.

"Well, —," continued her mother soon afterwards, "and so the
— live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, only hope it
will last. — what sort of table do they keep? — is an
excellent manager, dare say. If she is half as sharp as her mother,
she is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in _their_
housekeeping, dare say."

great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes. _They_ will
take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will never be distressed
for money. Well, much good may it do them! — so, suppose, they often
talk of having — when your father is dead. They look upon it
quite as their own, dare say, whenever that happens."

"No. It would have been strange if they had. But make no doubt, they
often talk of it between themselves. Well, if they can be easy with an
estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better. should be
ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me."

The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began. It was
the last of the regiment's stay in —, and all the young ladies in
the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The dejection was almost
universal. The elder — — alone were still able to eat, drink,
and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments. Very
frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by — and
—, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such
hard-heartedness in any of the family.

"Good —! What is to become of us! What are we to do!" would they
often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. "How can you be smiling so,
—?"

Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what
she had herself endured on similar occasion, five and twenty years
ago.

am sure," said she, cried for two days together when —
—'s regiment went away. thought should have broke my heart."

"Oh, one could but go to —! But papa is so
disagreeable."

"— my aunt — is sure it would do _me_ great deal of good,"
added —.

Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through
—-house. — tried to be diverted by them; but all sense
of pleasure was lost in shame. She felt anew the justice of Mr. —'s
objections; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his
interference in the views of his friend.

But the gloom of —'s prospect was shortly cleared away; for she
received an invitation from Mrs. —, the wife of the — of the
regiment, to accompany her to —. This invaluable friend was
very young woman, and very lately married. resemblance in good humour
and good spirits had recommended her and — to each other, and out of
their _three_ months' acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.

The rapture of — on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. —,
the delight of Mrs. —, and the mortification of —, are scarcely
to be described. Wholly inattentive to her sister's feelings, — flew
about the house in restless ecstacy, calling for every one's
congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever;
whilst the luckless — continued in the parlour repining at her fate
in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish.

cannot see why Mrs. — should not ask _me_ as well as —,"
said she, "though am _not_ her particular friend. have just as much
right to be asked as she has, and more too, for am two years older."

In vain did — attempt to make her reasonable, and — to make
her resigned. As for — herself, this invitation was so far from
exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and —, that she
considered it as the death-warrant of all possibility of common sense
for the latter; and detestable as such step must make her were it
known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her
go. She represented to him all the improprieties of —'s general
behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of
such woman as Mrs. —, and the probability of her being yet more
imprudent with such companion at —, where the temptations must
be greater than at home. He heard her attentively, and then said,

"— will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public
place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little
expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present
circumstances."

"If you were aware," said —, "of the very great disadvantage to
us all, which must arise from the public notice of —'s unguarded and
imprudent manner; nay, which has already arisen from it, am sure you
would judge differently in the affair."

"Already arisen!" repeated Mr. —. "What, has she frightened away
some of your lovers? Poor little —! But do not be cast down. Such
squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with little absurdity,
are not worth regret. Come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows
who have been kept aloof by —'s folly."

"Indeed you are mistaken. have no such injuries to resent. It is not
of peculiar, but of general evils, which am now complaining. Our
importance, our respectability in the world, must be affected by the
wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark
—'s character. Excuse must speak plainly. If you, my dear
father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and
of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of
her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her character
will be fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
that ever made herself and her family ridiculous. flirt too, in the
worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond
youth and tolerable person; and from the ignorance and emptiness of
her mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal
contempt which her rage for admiration will excite. In this danger —
is also comprehended. She will follow wherever — leads. Vain,
ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrouled! Oh! my dear father, can you
suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever
they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the
disgrace?"

Mr. — saw that her whole heart was in the subject; and
affectionately taking her hand, said in reply,

"Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and — are known,
you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less
advantage for having couple may say, three very silly
sisters. We shall have no peace at — if — does not go to
—. Let her go then. — — is sensible man, and will
keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an
object of prey to any body. At — she will be of less importance
even as common flirt than she has been here. The officers will find
women better worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being
there may teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow
many degrees worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest
of her life."

With this answer — was forced to be content; but her own opinion
continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry. It was not
in her nature, however, to increase her vexations, by dwelling on them.
She was confident of having performed her duty, and to fret over
unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her
disposition.

Had — and her mother known the substance of her conference with her
father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their
united volubility. In —'s imagination, visit to — comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness. She saw with the creative eye of
fancy, the streets of that gay bathing place covered with officers. She
saw herself the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at
present unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp; its tents
stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young
and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and to complete the view, she
saw herself seated beneath tent, tenderly flirting with at least six
officers at once.

Had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and
such realities as these, what would have been her sensations? They could
have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the
same. —'s going to — was all that consoled her for the
melancholy conviction of her husband's never intending to go there
himself.

But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures
continued with little intermission to the very day of —'s leaving
home.

— was now to see Mr. — for the last time. Having been
frequently in company with him since her return, agitation was pretty
well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. She had even
learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her,
an affectation and sameness to disgust and weary. In his present
behaviour to herself, moreover, she had fresh source of displeasure,
for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which
had marked the early part of their acquaintance, could only serve, after
what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost all concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal.

On the very last day of the regiment's remaining in —, he dined
with others of the officers at —; and so little was —
disposed to part from him in good humour, that on his making some
enquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at —, she
mentioned — —'s and Mr. —'s having both spent three
weeks at —, and asked him if he were acquainted with the former.

He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with moment's
recollection and returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen
him often; and after observing that he was very gentleman-like man,
asked her how she had liked him. Her answer was warmly in his favour.
With an air of indifference he soon afterwards added, "— long did you
say that he was at —?"

"Indeed!" cried — with look which did not escape her. "— pray
may ask?" but checking himself, he added in gayer tone, "— it in
address that he improves? Has he deigned to add ought of civility to his
ordinary style? for dare not hope," he continued in lower and more
serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."

"Oh, no!" said —. "In essentials, believe, he is very much
what he ever was."

While she spoke, — looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
rejoice over her words, or to distrust their meaning. There was
something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive
and anxious attention, while she added,

"When said that he improved on acquaintance, did not mean that
either his mind or manners were in state of improvement, but that from
knowing him better, his disposition was better understood."

—'s alarm now appeared in heightened complexion and agitated
look; for few minutes he was silent; till, shaking off his
embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of
accents,

"You, who so well know my feelings towards Mr. —, will readily
comprehend how sincerely must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume
even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that direction,
may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter
him from such foul misconduct as have suffered by. only fear that
the sort of cautiousness, to which you, imagine, have been alluding,
is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and
judgment he stands much in awe. His fear of her, has always operated,
know, when they were together; and good deal is to be imputed to his
wish of forwarding the match with — — —, which am certain he
has very much at heart."

— could not repress smile at this, but she answered only by
slight inclination of the head. She saw that he wanted to engage her on
the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge
him. The rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_, on his side,
of usual cheerfulness, but with no farther attempt to distinguish
—; and they parted at last with mutual civility, and possibly
mutual desire of never meeting again.

When the party broke up, — returned with Mrs. — to —,
from whence they were to set out early the next morning. The separation
between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic. — was the
only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy. Mrs.
— was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter,
and impressive in her injunctions that she would not miss the
opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible; advice, which there
was every reason to believe would be attended to; and in the clamorous
happiness of — herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus
of her sisters were uttered without being heard.

Had —'s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could
not have formed very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic
comfort. Her father captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance
of good humour, which youth and beauty generally give, had married
woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind, had very early in
their marriage put an end to all real affection for her. Respect,
esteem, and confidence, had vanished for ever; and all his views of
domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. — was not of
disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own
imprudence had brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often
console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of
the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal
enjoyments. To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted, than as
her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement. This is not
the sort of happiness which man would in general wish to owe to his
wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true
philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.

—, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her
father's behaviour as husband. She had always seen it with pain; but
respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of
herself, she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook, and to
banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation
and decorum which, in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own
children, was so highly reprehensible. But she had never felt so
strongly as now, the disadvantages which must attend the children of so
unsuitable marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils
arising from so ill-judged direction of talents; talents which rightly
used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters,
even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife.

When — had rejoiced over —'s departure, she found little
other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties
abroad were less varied than before; and at home she had mother and
sister whose constant repinings at the dulness of every thing around
them, threw real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though —
might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers
of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition
greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her
folly and assurance, by situation of such double danger as watering
place and camp. Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what has been
sometimes found before, that an event to which she had looked forward
with impatient desire, did not in taking place, bring all the
satisfaction she had promised herself. It was consequently necessary to
name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity; to have
some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by
again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the
present, and prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the —
was now the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation
for all the uncomfortable hours, which the discontentedness of her
mother and — made inevitable; and could she have included — in
the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.

"But it is fortunate," thought she, "that have something to wish for.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my
sister's absence, may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of
pleasure realized. scheme of which every part promises delight, can
never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by
the defence of some little peculiar vexation."

When — went away, she promised to write very often and very minutely
to her mother and —; but her letters were always long expected, and
always very short. Those to her mother, contained little else, than that
they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers
had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as
made her quite wild; that she had new gown, or new parasol, which
she would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in
violent hurry, as Mrs. — called her, and they were going to the
from her correspondence with her sister, there was still less
to be her letters to —, though rather longer, were much
too full of lines under the words to be made public.

After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health, good
humour and cheerfulness began to re-appear at —. Everything wore
happier aspect. The families who had been in town for the winter came
back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose. Mrs. —
was restored to her usual querulous serenity, and by the middle of —
— was so much recovered as to be able to enter — without
tears; an event of such happy promise as to make — hope, that by
the following —, she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to
mention an officer above once day, unless by some cruel and malicious
arrangement at the war-office, another regiment should be quartered in
—.

The time fixed for the beginning of their — tour was now fast
approaching; and fortnight only was wanting of it, when letter
arrived from Mrs. —, which at once delayed its commencement and
curtailed its extent. Mr. — would be prevented by business from
setting out till fortnight later in —, and must be in — again
within month; and as that left too short period for them to go so
far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with
the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up
the —, and substitute more contracted tour; and, according to the
present plan, were to go no farther northward than —. In that
county, there was enough to be seen, to occupy the chief of their three
weeks; and to Mrs. — it had peculiarly strong attraction. The
town where she had formerly passed some years of her life, and where
they were now to spend few days, was probably as great an object of
her curiosity, as all the celebrated beauties of —, —,
—, or the —.

— was excessively disappointed; she had set her heart on seeing
the —; and still thought there might have been time enough. But it
was her business to be certainly her temper to be happy;
and all was soon right again.

With the mention of —, there were many ideas connected. It was
impossible for her to see the word without thinking of — and its
owner. "But surely," said she, may enter his county with impunity,
and rob it of few petrified spars without his perceiving me."

The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to pass away
before her uncle and aunt's arrival. But they did pass away, and Mr. and
Mrs. —, with their four children, did at length appear at
—. The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two
younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of their cousin
—, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and
sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every
them, playing with them, and loving them.

The — staid only one night at —, and set off the next
morning with — in pursuit of novelty and amusement. One
enjoyment was of suitableness as companions;
suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear
to enhance every affection
and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were
disappointments abroad.

It is not the object of this work to give description of —,
nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither
lay; —, —, —, —, —, are
sufficiently known. small part of — is all the present
concern. To the little town of —, the scene of Mrs. —'s
former residence, and where she had lately learned that some
acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen
all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of
—, — found from her aunt, that — was situated. It
was not in their direct road, nor more than mile or two out of it. In
talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. — expressed an
inclination to see the place again. Mr. — declared his
willingness, and — was applied to for her approbation.

"My love, should not you like to see place of which you have heard so
much?" said her aunt. place too, with which so many of your
acquaintance are connected. — passed all his youth there, you
know."

— was distressed. She felt that she had no business at
—, and was obliged to assume disinclination for seeing it. She
must own that she was tired of great houses; after going over so many,
she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.

Mrs. — abused her stupidity. "If it were merely fine house
richly furnished," said she, should not care about it myself; but the
grounds are delightful. They have some of the finest woods in the
country."

— said no her mind could not acquiesce. The
possibility of meeting Mr. —, while viewing the place, instantly
occurred. It would be dreadful! She blushed at the very idea; and
thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run
such risk. But against this, there were objections; and she finally
resolved that it could be the last resource, if her private enquiries as
to the absence of the family, were unfavourably answered.

Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid
whether — were not very fine place, what was the name of its
proprietor, and with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
the summer. most welcome negative followed the last her
alarms being now removed, she was at leisure to feel great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.

—:
— for —,
— —, —.


—, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of
— — with some perturbation; and when at length they turned
in at the lodge, her spirits were in high flutter.

The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. They
entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through
beautiful wood, stretching over wide extent.

—'s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired
every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually ascended for
half mile, and then found themselves at the top of considerable
eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by
— —, situated on the opposite side of valley, into which
the road with some abruptness wound. It was large, handsome, stone
building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by ridge of high
woody in front, stream of some natural importance was
swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. Its banks
were neither formal, nor falsely adorned. — was delighted. She
had never seen place for which nature had done more, or where natural
beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were
all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt, that
to be mistress of — might be something!

They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and,
while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehensions of
meeting its owner returned. She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been
mistaken. On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the
hall; and —, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to
wonder at her being where she was.

The housekeeper came; respectable-looking, elderly woman, much less
fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her. They
followed her into the dining-parlour. It was large, well-proportioned
room, handsomely fitted up. —, after slightly surveying it, went
to window to enjoy its prospect. The hill, crowned with wood, from
which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the
distance, was beautiful object. Every disposition of the ground was
good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered
on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace
it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms, these objects were
taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to
be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture suitable
to the fortune of their proprietor; but — saw, with admiration
of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of
splendor, and more real elegance, than the furniture of —.

"— of this place," thought she, might have been mistress! With
these rooms might now have been familiarly acquainted! Instead of
viewing them as stranger, might have rejoiced in them as my own, and
welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and
could never be: my uncle and aunt would have been lost
to me: should not have been allowed to invite them."

She longed to enquire of the housekeeper, whether her master were really
absent, but had not courage for it. At length, however, the question was
asked by her uncle; and she turned away with alarm, while Mrs. —
replied, that he was, adding, "but we expect him to-morrow, with
large party of friends." How rejoiced was — that their own
journey had not by any circumstance been delayed day!

Her aunt now called her to look at picture. She approached, and saw
the likeness of Mr. — suspended, amongst several other miniatures,
over the mantle-piece. Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
The housekeeper came forward, and told them it was the picture of
young gentleman, the son of her late master's steward, who had been
brought up by him at his own is now gone into the army,"
she added, "but am afraid he has turned out very wild."

Mrs. — looked at her niece with smile, but — could not
return it.

"— that," said Mrs. —, pointing to another of the miniatures,
"is my very like him. It was drawn at the same time as the
eight years ago."

have heard much of your master's fine person," said Mrs. —,
looking at the picture; "it is handsome face. But, —, you can tell
us whether it is like or not."

Mrs. —'s respect for — seemed to increase on this
intimation of her knowing her master.

am sure know none so handsome; but in the gallery up stairs you
will see finer, larger picture of him than this. This room was my late
master's favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to
be then. He was very fond of them."

Mrs. — then directed their attention to one of — —, drawn
when she was only eight years old.

"Oh! handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so
plays and sings all day long. In the next room is
new instrument just come down for present from my master; she
comes here to-morrow with him."

Mr. —, whose manners were easy and pleasant, encouraged her
communicativeness by his questions and remarks; Mrs. —, either
from pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her
master and his sister.

"Not so much as could wish, —; but dare say he may spend half his
time here; and — — is always down for the summer months."

"Yes, —; but do not know when _that_ will be. do not know who is
good enough for him."

Mr. and Mrs. — smiled. — could not help saying, "— is
very much to his credit, am sure, that you should think so."

say no more than the truth, and what every body will say that knows
him," replied the other. — thought this was going pretty far;
and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added,
have never had cross word from him in my life, and have known him
ever since he was four years old."

This was praise, of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to her
ideas. That he was not good-tempered man, had been her firmest
opinion. Her keenest attention was awakened; she longed to hear more,
and was grateful to her uncle for saying,

"There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are lucky in
having such master."

"Yes, —, know am. If was to go through the world, could not
meet with better. But have always observed, that they who are
good-natured when children, are good-natured when they grow up; and he
was always the sweetest-tempered, most generous-hearted, boy in the
world."

"Yes, —'am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like
as affable to the poor."

— listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more. Mrs.
— could interest her on no other point. She related the subject
of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the
furniture, in vain. Mr. —, highly amused by the kind of family
prejudice, to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his
many merits, as they proceeded together up the great staircase.

"He is the best landlord, and the best master," said she, "that ever
lived. Not like the wild young men who think of nothing but
themselves. There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will
give him good name. Some people call him proud; but am sure never
saw any thing of it. To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle
away like other young men."

"This fine account of him," whispered her aunt, as they walked, "is not
quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend."

On reaching the spacious lobby above, they were shewn into very
pretty sitting-room, lately fitted up with greater elegance and
lightness than the apartments below; and were informed that it was but
just done, to give pleasure to — —, who had taken liking to the
room, when last at —.

"He is certainly good brother," said —, as she walked towards
one of the windows.

Mrs. — anticipated — —'s delight, when she should enter
the room. "— this is always the way with him," she
can give his sister any pleasure, is sure to be done in moment. There
is nothing he would not do for her."

The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bed-rooms, were
all that remained to be shewn. In the former were many good paintings;
but — knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already
visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of —
—'s, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and
also more intelligible.

In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have
little to fix the attention of stranger. — walked on in quest
of the only face whose features would be known to her. At last it
arrested she beheld striking resemblance of Mr. —, with
such smile over the face, as she remembered to have sometimes seen,
when he looked at her. She stood several minutes before the picture in
earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the
gallery. Mrs. — informed them, that it had been taken in his
father's life time.

There was certainly at this moment, in —'s mind, more gentle
sensation towards the original, than she had ever felt in the height of
their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. —
was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise
of an intelligent servant? As brother, landlord, master, she
considered how many people's happiness were in his
much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to much of
good or evil must be done by him! Every idea that had been brought
forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character, and as she
stood before the canvas, on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes
upon herself, she thought of his regard with deeper sentiment of
gratitude than it had ever raised before; she remembered its warmth, and
softened its impropriety of expression.

When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned down stairs, and taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall door.

As they walked across the lawn towards the river, — turned back
to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was
conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself
suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.

They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was his
appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight. Their eyes
instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest
blush. He absolutely started, and for moment seemed immoveable from
surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party,
and spoke to —, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least
of perfect civility.

She had instinctively turned away; but, stopping on his approach,
received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be
overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture
they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two
that they now saw Mr. —, the gardener's expression of surprise, on
beholding his master, must immediately have told it. They stood little
aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused,
scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she
returned to his civil enquiries after her family. Amazed at the
alteration in his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he
uttered was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the
impropriety of her being found there, recurring to her mind, the few
minutes in which they continued together, were some of the most
uncomfortable of her life. Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he
spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his
enquiries as to the time of her having left —, and of her stay
in —, so often, and in so hurried way, as plainly spoke the
distraction of his thoughts.

At length, every idea seemed to fail him; and, after standing few
moments without saying word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took
leave.

The others then joined her, and expressed their admiration of his
figure; but — heard not word, and, wholly engrossed by her own
feelings, followed them in silence. She was overpowered by shame and
vexation. Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged
thing in the world! How strange must it appear to him! In what
disgraceful light might it not strike so vain man! It might seem as if
she had purposely thrown herself in his way again! Oh! why did she come?
or, why did he thus come day before he was expected? Had they been
only ten minutes sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his
discrimination, for it was plain that he was that moment arrived, that
moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. She blushed again and
again over the perverseness of the meeting. — his behaviour, so
strikingly could it mean? That he should even speak to
her was to speak with such civility, to enquire after her
family! Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified,
never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
What contrast did it offer to his last address in —'s —, when
he put his letter into her hand! She knew not what to think, nor how to
account for it.

They had now entered beautiful walk by the side of the water, and
every step was bringing forward nobler fall of ground, or finer
reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time
before — was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered
mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed
to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she
distinguished no part of the scene. Her thoughts were all fixed on that
one spot of — —, whichever it might be, where Mr. — then
was. She longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind; in
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of every thing,
she was still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil, only because he
felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice, which was
not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing
her, she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her with
composure.

At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind
roused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.

They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for while,
ascended some of the higher grounds; whence, in spots where the opening
of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of
the valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods
overspreading many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. —
expressed wish of going round the whole —, but feared it might be
beyond walk. With triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten
miles round. It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed
circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in descent among
hanging woods, to the edge of the water, in one of its narrowest parts.
They crossed it by simple bridge, in character with the general air of
the scene; it was spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and
the valley, here contracted into glen, allowed room only for the
stream, and narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered
it. — longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed
the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mrs. —,
who was not great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of
returning to the carriage as quickly as possible. Her niece was,
therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house
on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their
progress was slow, for Mr. —, though seldom able to indulge the
taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the
occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man
about them, that he advanced but little. Whilst wandering on in this
slow manner, they were again surprised, and —'s astonishment was
quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. —
approaching them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less
sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they
met. —, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an
interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with
calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For few moments, indeed,
she felt that he would probably strike into some other path. This idea
lasted while turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the
turning past, he was immediately before them. With glance she saw,
that he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his
politeness, she began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place;
but she had not got beyond the words "delightful," and "charming," when
some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of
— from her, might be mischievously construed. Her colour
changed, and she said no more.

Mrs. — was standing little behind; and on her pausing, he asked
her, if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
This was stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared; and
she could hardly suppress smile, at his being now seeking the
acquaintance of some of those very people, against whom his pride had
revolted, in his offer to herself. "What will be his surprise," thought
she, "when he knows who they are! He takes them now for people of
fashion."

The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their
relationship to herself, she stole sly look at him, to see how he bore
it; and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he
could from such disgraceful companions. That he was _surprised_ by the
connexion was evident; he sustained it however with fortitude, and so
far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
conversation with Mr. —. — could not but be pleased,
could not but triumph. It was consoling, that he should know she had
some relations for whom there was no need to blush. She listened most
attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence,
his taste, or his good manners.

The conversation soon turned upon fishing, and she heard Mr. —
invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he
chose, while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same
time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of
the stream where there was usually most sport. Mrs. —, who was
walking arm in arm with —, gave her look expressive of her
wonder. — said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the
compliment must be all for herself. Her astonishment, however, was
extreme; and continually was she repeating, "— is he so altered? From
what can it proceed? It cannot be for _me_, it cannot be for _my_ sake
that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at — could not
work such change as this. It is impossible that he should still love
me."

After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two
gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to the
brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious
water-plant, there chanced to be little alteration. It originated in
Mrs. —, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found
—'s arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred
her husband's. Mr. — took her place by her niece, and they walked on
together. After short silence, the lady first spoke. She wished him to
know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the
place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been
very your housekeeper," she added, "informed us that
you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and indeed, before we
left —, we understood that you were not immediately expected in
the country." He acknowledged the truth of it all; and said that
business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward few hours
before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling. "They
will join me early to-morrow," he continued, "and among them are some
who will claim an acquaintance with — and his sisters."

— answered only by slight bow. Her thoughts were instantly
driven back to the time when Mr. —'s name had been last mentioned
between them; and if she might judge from his complexion, _his_ mind was
not very differently engaged.

"There is also one other person in the party," he continued after
pause, "who more particularly wishes to be known to you allow
me, or do ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance
during your stay at —?"

The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great
for her to know in what manner she acceded to it. She immediately felt
that whatever desire — — might have of being acquainted with her,
must be the work of her brother, and without looking farther, it was
satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made
him think really ill of her.

They now walked on in silence; each of them deep in thought. —
was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and
pleased. His wish of introducing his sister to her, was compliment of
the highest kind. They soon outstripped the others, and when they had
reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. — were half quarter of
mile behind.

He then asked her to walk into the she declared herself not
tired, and they stood together on the lawn. At such time, much might
have been said, and silence was very awkward. She wanted to talk, but
there seemed an embargo on every subject. At last she recollected that
she had been travelling, and they talked of — and — — with
great perseverance. Yet time and her aunt moved her patience
and her ideas were nearly worn out before the was over. On
Mr. and Mrs. —'s coming up, they were all pressed to go into the
house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they parted
on each side with the utmost politeness. Mr. — handed the ladies
into the carriage, and when it drove off, — saw him walking
slowly towards the house.

The observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of them
pronounced him to be infinitely superior to any thing they had expected.
"He is perfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming," said her uncle.

"There _is_ something little stately in him to be sure," replied her
aunt, "but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming. can now
say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud,
have seen nothing of it."

was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was more
than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such
attention. His acquaintance with — was very trifling."

"To be sure, —," said her aunt, "he is not so handsome as —;
or rather he has not —'s countenance, for his features are
perfectly good. But how came you to tell us that he was so
disagreeable?"

— excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked
him better when they met in — than before, and that she had never
seen him so pleasant as this morning.

"But perhaps he may be little whimsical in his civilities," replied
her uncle. "Your great men often are; and therefore shall not take him
at his word about fishing, as he might change his mind another day, and
warn me off his grounds."

— felt that they had entirely mistaken his character, but said
nothing.

"From what we have seen of him," continued Mrs. —, really
should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel way by
any body, as he has done by poor —. He has not an ill-natured
look. On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when
he speaks. — there is something of dignity in his countenance, that
would not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart. But to be sure,
the good lady who shewed us the house, did give him most flaming
character! could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But he is
liberal master, suppose, and _that_ in the eye of servant
comprehends every virtue."

— here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of
his behaviour to —; and therefore gave them to understand, in as
guarded manner as she could, that by what she had heard from his
relations in —, his actions were capable of very different
construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor
—'s so amiable, as they had been considered in —. In
confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary
transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming
her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.

Mrs. — was surprised and concerned; but as they were now
approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave way to
the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in pointing out
to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs, to think of
any thing else. Fatigued as she had been by the morning's walk, they had
no sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former
acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an
intercourse renewed after many years discontinuance.

The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave —
much attention for any of these new friends; and she could do nothing
but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. —'s civility, and above
all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister.

— had settled it that Mr. — would bring his sister to visit
her, the very day after her reaching —; and was consequently
resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning.
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their own
arrival at —, these visitors came. They had been walking about the
place with some of their new friends, and were just returned to the inn
to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of
carriage drew them to window, and they saw gentleman and lady in
curricle, driving up the street. — immediately recognising the
livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of surprise
to her relations, by acquainting them with the honour which she
expected. Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment
of her manner as she spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many
of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them new idea on
the business. Nothing had ever suggested it before, but they now felt
that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such
quarter, than by supposing partiality for their niece. While these
newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of
—'s feelings was every moment increasing. She was quite amazed
at her own discomposure; but amongst other causes of disquiet, she
dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in
her favour; and more than commonly anxious to please, she naturally
suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her.

She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she walked
up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw such looks
of enquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt, as made every thing worse.

— — and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction
took place. With astonishment did — see, that her new
acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself. Since her
being at —, she had heard that — — was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of very few minutes convinced her, that she was
only exceedingly shy. She found it difficult to obtain even word from
her beyond monosyllable.

— — was tall, and on larger scale than —; and, though
little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance
womanly and graceful. She was less handsome than her brother, but there
was sense and good humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly
unassuming and gentle. —, who had expected to find in her as
acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. — had been, was much
relieved by discerning such different feelings.

They had not been long together, before — told her that — was
also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her
satisfaction, and prepare for such visitor, when —'s quick step
was heard on the stairs, and in moment he entered the room. All
—'s anger against him had been long done away; but, had she
still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the
unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself, on seeing her
again. He enquired in friendly, though general way, after her family,
and looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever
done.

To Mr. and Mrs. — he was scarcely less interesting personage
than to herself. They had long wished to see him. The whole party before
them, indeed, excited lively attention. The suspicions which had just
arisen of Mr. — and their niece, directed their observation towards
each with an earnest, though guarded, enquiry; and they soon drew from
those enquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what
it was to love. Of the lady's sensations they remained little in
doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was
evident enough.

—, on her side, had much to do. She wanted to ascertain the
feelings of each of her visitors, she wanted to compose her own, and to
make herself agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where she
feared most to fail, she was most sure of success, for those to whom she
endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in her favour. —
was ready, — was eager, and — determined, to be pleased.

In seeing —, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and oh!
how ardently did she long to know, whether any of his were directed in
like manner. Sometimes she could fancy, that he talked less than on
former occasions, and once or twice pleased herself with the notion that
as he looked at her, he was trying to trace resemblance. But, though
this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his behaviour
to — —, who had been set up as rival of —. No look appeared
on either side that spoke particular regard. Nothing occurred between
them that could justify the hopes of his sister. On this point she was
soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they
parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted recollection of
—, not untinctured by tenderness, and wish of saying more that
might lead to the mention of her, had he dared. He observed to her, at
moment when the others were talking together, and in tone which had
something of real regret, that it "was very long time since he had had
the pleasure of seeing her;" and, before she could reply, he added, "—
is above eight months. We have not met since the 26th of —, when
we were all dancing together at —."

— was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards
took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of the rest,
whether _all_ her sisters were at —. There was not much in the
question, nor in the preceding remark, but there was look and manner
which gave them meaning.

It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. — himself; but,
whenever she did catch glimpse, she saw an expression of general
complaisance, and in all that he said, she heard an accent so far
removed from hauteur or disdain of his companions, as convinced her that
the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed, however
temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one day. When
she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance, and courting the good opinion
of people, with whom any intercourse few months ago would have been
disgrace; when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to the
very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected their last
lively scene in — —, the difference, the change was so
great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could hardly
restrain her astonishment from being visible. Never, even in the company
of his dear friends at —, or his dignified relations at
—, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from
self-consequence, or unbending reserve as now, when no importance could
result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the
acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed, would draw
down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of — and
—.

Their visitors staid with them above half an hour, and when they arose
to depart, Mr. — called on his sister to join him in expressing
their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. —, and — —, to dinner
at —, before they left the country. — —, though with
diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations,
readily obeyed. Mrs. — looked at her niece, desirous of knowing
how _she_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its
acceptance, but — had turned away her head. Presuming, however,
that this studied avoidance spoke rather momentary embarrassment, than
any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in her husband, who was fond of
society, perfect willingness to accept it, she ventured to engage for
her attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on.

— expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing —
again, having still great deal to say to her, and many enquiries to
make after all their — friends. —, construing all
this into wish of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased; and on
this account, as well as some others, found herself, when their visitors
left them, capable of considering the last half hour with some
satisfaction, though while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been
little. Eager to be alone, and fearful of enquiries or hints from her
uncle and aunt, she staid with them only long enough to hear their
favourable opinion of —, and then hurried away to dress.

But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. —'s curiosity; it was
not their wish to force her communication. It was evident that she was
much better acquainted with Mr. — than they had before any idea of;
it was evident that he was very much in love with her. They saw much to
interest, but nothing to justify enquiry.

Of Mr. — it was now matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far
as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find. They could
not be untouched by his politeness, and had they drawn his character
from their own feelings, and his servant's report, without any reference
to any other account, the circle in — to which he was known,
would not have recognised it for Mr. —. There was now an interest,
however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible,
that the authority of servant who had known him since he was four
years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be
hastily rejected. Neither had any thing occurred in the intelligence of
their — friends, that could materially lessen its weight. They
had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if
not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of small
market-town, where the family did not visit. It was acknowledged,
however, that he was liberal man, and did much good among the poor.

With respect to —, the travellers soon found that he was not held
there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns, with the
son of his patron, were imperfectly understood, it was yet well known
fact that, on his quitting —, he had left many debts behind
him, which Mr. — afterwards discharged.

As for —, her thoughts were at — this evening more than
the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not
long enough to determine her feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and
she lay awake two whole hours, endeavouring to make them out. She
certainly did not hate him. No; hatred had vanished long ago, and she
had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling dislike against him,
that could be so called. The respect created by the conviction of his
valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some
time ceased to be repugnant to her feelings; and it was now heightened
into somewhat of friendlier nature, by the testimony so highly in his
favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable light,
which yesterday had produced. But above all, above respect and esteem,
there was motive within her of good will which could not be
overlooked. It was not merely for having once
loved her, but for loving her still well enough, to forgive all the
petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the
unjust accusations accompanying her rejection. He who, she had been
persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this
accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without
any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where
their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion
of her friends, and bent on making her known to his sister. Such
change in man of so much pride, excited not only astonishment but
to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and as such
its impression on her was of sort to be encouraged, as by no means
unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined. She respected, she
esteemed, she was grateful to him, she felt real interest in his
welfare; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to
depend upon herself, and how far it would be for the happiness of both
that she should employ the power, which her fancy told her she still
possessed, of bringing on the renewal of his addresses.

It had been settled in the evening, between the aunt and niece, that
such striking civility as — —'s, in coming to them on the very
day of her arrival at —, for she had reached it only to late
breakfast, ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by
some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that it
would be highly expedient to wait on her at — the following
morning. They were, therefore, to was pleased, though,
when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.

Mr. — left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme had been
renewed the day before, and positive engagement made of his meeting
some of the gentlemen at — by noon.

Convinced as — now was that — —'s dislike of her had
originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how very unwelcome
her appearance at — must be to her, and was curious to know with
how much civility on that lady's side, the acquaintance would now be
renewed.

On reaching the house, they were shewn through the hall into the saloon,
whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer. Its windows
opening to the ground, admitted most refreshing view of the high woody
hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and — chesnuts
which were scattered over the intermediate lawn.

In this room they were received by — —, who was sitting there
with Mrs. — and — —, and the lady with whom she lived in
—. —'s reception of them was very civil; but attended with
all that embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the
fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves
inferior, the belief of her being proud and reserved. Mrs. — and
her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.

By Mrs. — and — —, they were noticed only by curtsey; and
on their being seated, pause, awkward as such pauses must always be,
succeeded for few moments. It was first broken by Mrs. —,
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
of discourse, proved her to be more truly well bred than either of the
others; and between her and Mrs. —, with occasional help from
—, the conversation was carried on. — — looked as if she
wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture
short sentence, when there was least danger of its being heard.

— soon saw that she was herself closely watched by — —,
and that she could not speak word, especially to — —, without
calling her attention. This observation would not have prevented her
from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an
inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity
of saying much. Her own thoughts were employing her. She expected every
moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room. She wished, she
feared that the master of the house might be amongst them; and whether
she wished or feared it most, she could scarcely determine. After
sitting in this manner quarter of an hour, without hearing —
—'s voice, — was roused by receiving from her cold
enquiry after the health of her family. She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.

The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and variety of all the
finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many
significant look and smile from Mrs. — to — — had been
given, to remind her of her post. There was now employment for the whole
party; for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the
beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches, soon collected
them round the table.

While thus engaged, — had fair opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. —, by the
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
regret that he came.

He had been some time with Mr. —, who, with two or three other
gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river, and had left him
only on learning that the ladies of the family intended visit to
— that morning. No sooner did he appear, than — wisely
resolved to be perfectly easy and resolution the more
necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because she
saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them,
and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour
when he first came into the room. In no countenance was attentive
curiosity so strongly marked as in — —'s, in spite of the
smiles which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its
objects; for jealousy had not yet made her desperate, and her attentions
to Mr. — were by no means over. — —, on her brother's
entrance, exerted herself much more to talk; and — saw that he
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded,
as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side. —
— saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the
first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility,

"Pray, — —, are not the ----shire militia removed from —?
They must be great loss to _your_ family."

In —'s presence she dared not mention —'s name; but —
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the
various recollections connected with him gave her moment's distress;
but, exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she
presently answered the question in tolerably disengaged tone. While
she spoke, an involuntary glance shewed her — with an heightened
complexion, earnestly looking at her, and his sister overcome with
confusion, and unable to lift up her eyes. Had — — known what
pain she was then giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have
refrained from the hint; but she had merely intended to discompose
—, by bringing forward the idea of man to whom she believed
her partial, to make her betray sensibility which might injure her in
—'s opinion, and perhaps to remind the latter of all the follies and
absurdities, by which some part of her family were connected with that
corps. Not syllable had ever reached her of — —'s meditated
elopement. To no creature had it been revealed, where secresy was
possible, except to —; and from all —'s connections her
brother was particularly anxious to conceal it, from that very wish
which — had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming
hereafter her own. He had certainly formed such plan, and without
meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from —
—, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern
for the welfare of his friend.

—'s collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his emotion; and
as — —, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to
—, — also recovered in time, though not enough to be able
to speak any more. Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely
recollected her interest in the affair, and the very circumstance which
had been designed to turn his thoughts from —, seemed to have
fixed them on her more, and more cheerfully.

Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer
above-mentioned; and while Mr. — was attending them to their
carriage, — — was venting her feelings in criticisms on
—'s person, behaviour, and dress. But — would not join
her. Her brother's recommendation was enough to ensure her favour: his
judgment could not err, and he had spoken in such terms of —, as
to leave — without the power of finding her otherwise than
lovely and amiable. When — returned to the saloon, — —
could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to
his sister.

"How very ill — — looks this morning, Mr. —," she cried;
never in my life saw any one so much altered as she is since the winter.
She is grown so brown and coarse! — and were agreeing that we
should not have known her again."

However little Mr. — might have liked such an address, he contented
himself with coolly replying, that he perceived no other alteration than
her being rather miraculous consequence of travelling in the
summer.

"For my own part," she rejoined, must confess that never could see
any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion has no
brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her nose wants
character; there is nothing marked in its lines. Her teeth are
tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for her eyes, which
have sometimes been called so fine, never could perceive any thing
extraordinary in them. They have sharp, shrewish look, which do not
like at all; and in her air altogether, there is self-sufficiency
without fashion, which is intolerable."

Persuaded as — — was that — admired —, this was not
the best method of recommending herself; but angry people are not always
wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, she had all the
success she expected. He was resolutely silent however; and, from
determination of making him speak, she continued,

remember, when we first knew her in —, how amazed we all
were to find that she was reputed beauty; and particularly recollect
your saying one night, after they had been dining at —, '_—_
should as soon call her mother wit.' — afterwards she
seemed to improve on you, and believe you thought her rather pretty at
one time."

"Yes," replied —, who could contain himself no longer, "but _that_
was only when first knew her, for it is many months since have
considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance."

He then went away, and — — was left to all the satisfaction of
having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.

Mrs. — and — talked of all that had occurred, during
their visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested
them both. The looks and behaviour of every body they had seen were
discussed, except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention.
They talked of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruit, of every
thing but himself; yet — was longing to know what Mrs. —
thought of him, and Mrs. — would have been highly gratified by
her niece's beginning the subject.

— had been good deal disappointed in not finding letter from
—, on their first arrival at —; and this disappointment had
been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but
on the third, her repining was over, and her sister justified by the
receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that
it had been missent elsewhere. — was not surprised at it, as
— had written the direction remarkably ill.

They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her
uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by
themselves. The one missent must be first attended to; it had been
written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of all their
little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded;
but the latter half, which was dated day later, and written in evident
agitation, gave more important intelligence. It was to this effect:

"Since writing the above, dearest —, something has occurred of
most unexpected and serious nature; but am afraid of alarming
assured that we are all well. What have to say relates to
poor —. An express came at twelve last night, just as we were
all gone to bed, from — —, to inform us that she was
gone off to — with one of his officers; to own the truth,
with —!--— our surprise. To —, however, it does not
seem so wholly unexpected. am very, very sorry. So imprudent
match on both am willing to hope the best, and that
his character has been misunderstood. Thoughtless and indiscreet
can easily believe him, but this step (and let us rejoice over it)
marks nothing bad at heart. His choice is disinterested at least,
for he must know my father can give her nothing. Our poor mother
is sadly grieved. My father bears it better. How thankful am
that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must
forget it ourselves. They were off — night about twelve, as
is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at
eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear —, they must
have passed within ten miles of us. — — gives us reason
to expect him here soon. — left few lines for his wife,
informing her of their intention. must conclude, for cannot be
long from my poor mother. am afraid you will not be able to make
it out, but hardly know what have written."

Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing
what she felt, — on finishing this letter, instantly seized the
other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it
had been written day later than the conclusion of the first.

"By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried
letter; wish this may be more intelligible, but though not
confined for time, my head is so bewildered that cannot answer
for being coherent. —arest —, hardly know what would
write, but have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
Imprudent as marriage between Mr. — and our poor —
would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place, for
there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to —.
— — came yesterday, having left — the day
before, not many hours after the express. Though —'s short
letter to Mrs. gave them to understand that they were going to
— —, something was dropped by — expressing his belief
that never intended to go there, or to marry — at all, which
was repeated to — who instantly taking the alarm, set off
from intending to trace their route. He did trace them easily to
—, but no farther; for on entering that place they removed
into hackney-coach and dismissed the chaise that brought them
from —. All that is known after this is, that they were seen
to continue the — road. know not what to think. After making
every possible enquiry on that side —, — came on into
—, anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at
the inns in — and —, but without any success, no such
people had been seen to pass through. With the kindest concern he
came on to —, and broke his apprehensions to us in manner
most creditable to his heart. am sincerely grieved for him and
Mrs. but no one can throw any blame on them. Our distress, my
dear —, is very great. My father and mother believe the worst,
but cannot think so ill of him. —ny circumstances might make it
more eligible for them to be married privately in town than to
pursue their first plan; and even if _he_ could form such design
against young woman of —'s connections, which is not likely,
can suppose her so lost to every grieve to
find, however, that — is not disposed to depend upon their
marriage; he shook his head when expressed my hopes, and said he
feared was not man to be trusted. My poor mother is really ill
and keeps her room. Could she exert herself it would be better, but
this is not to be expected; and as to my father, never in my life
saw him so affected. Poor — has anger for having concealed
their attachment; but as it was matter of confidence one cannot
wonder. am truly glad, dearest —, that you have been spared
something of these distressing scenes; but now as the first shock
is over, shall own that long for your return? am not so
selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient. Adieu.
take up my pen again to do, what have just told you would not,
but circumstances are such, that cannot help earnestly begging
you all to come here, as soon as possible. know my dear uncle and
aunt so well, that am not afraid of requesting it, though have
still something more to ask of the former. My father is going to
— with — — instantly, to try to discover her. What
he means to do, am sure know not; but his excessive distress
will not allow him to pursue any measure in the best and safest
way, and — — is obliged to be at — again
to-morrow evening. In such an exigence my uncle's advice and
assistance would be every thing in the world; he will immediately
comprehend what must feel, and rely upon his goodness."

"Oh! where, where is my uncle?" cried —, darting from her seat
as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing
moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door, it was
opened by servant, and Mr. — appeared. Her pale face and impetuous
manner made him start, and before he could recover himself enough to
speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by —'s
situation, hastily exclaimed, beg your pardon, but must leave you.
must find Mr. — this moment, on business that cannot be
delayed; have not an instant to lose."

"Good —! what is the matter?" cried he, with more feeling than
politeness; then recollecting himself, will not detain you minute,
but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mrs. —. You are
not well cannot go yourself."

— hesitated, but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how
little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them. Calling back
the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an
accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and
mistress home, instantly.

On his quitting the room, she sat down, unable to support herself, and
looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for — to leave her,
or to refrain from saying, in tone of gentleness and commiseration,
"— me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take, to give you
present glass of get you are very
ill."

"No, thank you;" she replied, endeavouring to recover herself. "There
is nothing the matter with me. am quite well. am only distressed by
some dreadful news which have just received from —."

She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for few minutes could
not speak another word. —, in wretched suspense, could only say
something indistinctly of his concern, and observe her in compassionate
silence. At length, she spoke again. have just had letter from
—, with such dreadful news. It cannot be concealed from any one. My
youngest sister has left all her thrown
herself into the power Mr. —. They are gone off together
from —. _You_ know him too well to doubt the rest. She has no
money, no connections, nothing that can tempt him is lost for
ever."

— was fixed in astonishment. "When consider," she added, in yet
more agitated voice, "that might have prevented who knew
what he was. Had but explained some part of it part of what
learnt, to my own family! Had his character been known, this could not
have happened. But it is all, all too late now."

am grieved, indeed," cried —; — is it
certain, absolutely certain?"

"Oh left — together on — night, and were traced
almost to —, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone to
—."

"My father is gone to —, and — has written to beg my uncle's
immediate assistance, and we shall be off, hope, in half an hour. But
nothing can be done; know very well that nothing can be done. How is
such man to be worked on? How are they even to be discovered? have
not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!"

"When _my_ eyes were opened to his real had known what
ought, what dared, to do! But knew was afraid of doing too
much. Wretched, wretched, mistake!"

— made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up
and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air
gloomy. — soon observed, and instantly understood it. Her power
was sinking; every thing _must_ sink under such proof of family
weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. She could neither
wonder nor condemn, but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing
consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
him, as now, when all love must be vain.

But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her. —--the
humiliation, the misery, she was bringing on them all, soon swallowed up
every private care; and covering her face with her handkerchief,
— was soon lost to every thing else; and, after pause of
several minutes, was only recalled to sense of her situation by the
voice of her companion, who, in manner, which though it spoke
compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said, am afraid you have been
long desiring my absence, nor have any thing to plead in excuse of my
stay, but real, though unavailing, concern. Would to heaven that any
thing could be either said or done on my part, that might offer
consolation to such will not torment you with vain
wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks. This
unfortunate affair will, fear, prevent my sister's having the pleasure
of seeing you at — to-day."

"Oh, yes. Be so kind as to apologize for us to — —. Say that
urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the unhappy truth as
long as it is know it cannot be long."

He readily assured her of his expressed his sorrow for
her distress, wished it happier conclusion than there was at present
reason to hope, and leaving his compliments for her relations, with only
one serious, parting, look, went away.

As he quitted the room, — felt how improbable it was that they
should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had
marked their several meetings in —; and as she threw
retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of
contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those
feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would
formerly have rejoiced in its termination.

If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, —'s
change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty. But if
otherwise, if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or
unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on
first interview with its object, and even before two words have been
exchanged, nothing can be said in her defence, except that she had given
somewhat of trial to the latter method, in her partiality for —,
and that its ill-success might perhaps authorise her to seek the other
less interesting mode of attachment. Be that as it may, she saw him go
with regret; and in this early example of what —'s infamy must
produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
business. Never, since reading —'s second letter, had she entertained
hope of —'s meaning to marry her. No one but —, she thought,
could flatter herself with such an expectation. Surprise was the least
of her feelings on this developement. While the contents of the first
letter remained on her mind, she was all astonishment that
— should marry girl, whom it was impossible he could marry for
money; and how — could ever have attached him, had appeared
incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an attachment
as this, she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not
suppose — to be deliberately engaging in an elopement, without the
intention of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither
her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy
prey.

She had never perceived, while the regiment was in —, that
— had any partiality for him, but she was convinced that — had
wanted only encouragement to attach herself to any body. Sometimes one
officer, sometimes another had been her favourite, as their attentions
raised them in her opinion. Her affections had been continually
fluctuating, but never without an object. The mischief of neglect and
mistaken indulgence towards such how acutely did she now
feel it.

She was wild to be at hear, to see, to be upon the spot, to
share with — in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her, in
family so deranged; father absent, mother incapable of exertion, and
requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing
could be done for —, her uncle's interference seemed of the utmost
importance, and till he entered the room, the misery of her impatience
was severe. Mr. and Mrs. — had hurried back in alarm, supposing,
by the servant's account, that their niece was taken suddenly
satisfying them instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the
cause of their summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on
the postscript of the last, with trembling — had
never been favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. — could not but be
deeply affected. Not — only, but all were concerned in it; and after
the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. — readily
promised every assistance in his though expecting no
less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated
by one spirit, every thing relating to their journey was speedily
settled. They were to be off as soon as possible. "But what is to be
done about —?" cried Mrs. —. "John told us Mr. — was
here when you sent for it so?"

"Yes; and told him we should not be able to keep our engagement.
_That_ is all settled."

"That is all settled;" repeated the other, as she ran into her room to
prepare. "— are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real
truth! Oh, that knew how it was!"

But wishes were vain; or at best could serve only to amuse her in the
hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had — been at leisure
to be idle, she would have remained certain that all employment was
impossible to one so wretched as herself; but she had her share of
business as well as her aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to
be written to all their friends in —, with false excuses for their
sudden departure. An hour, however, saw the whole completed; and Mr.
— meanwhile having settled his account at the inn, nothing
remained to be done but to go; and —, after all the misery of
the morning, found herself, in shorter space of time than she could
have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to —.

have been thinking it over again, —," said her uncle, as they
drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, am much
more inclined than was to judge as your eldest sister does of the
matter. It appears to me so very unlikely, that any young man should
form such design against girl who is by no means unprotected or
friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonel's family, that
am strongly inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that her friends
would not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed again by the
regiment, after such an affront to — —? His temptation is
not adequate to the risk."

"Upon my word," said Mrs. —, begin to be of your uncle's
opinion. It is really too great violation of decency, honour, and
interest, for him to be guilty of it. cannot think so very ill of
—. Can you, yourself, —, so wholly give him up, as to believe
him capable of it?"

"Not perhaps of neglecting his own interest. But of every other neglect
can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But dare not
hope it. Why should they not go on to —, if that had been the
case?"

"In the first place," replied Mr. —, "there is no absolute proof
that they are not gone to —."

"Oh! but their removing from the chaise into an hackney coach is such
presumption! —, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
— road."

"Well, them to be in —. They may be there, though
for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptionable purpose. It is
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it
might strike them that they could be more economically, though less
expeditiously, married in —, than in —."

"But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must their
marriage be private? Oh! no, no, this is not likely. His most particular
friend, you see by —'s account, was persuaded of his never intending
to marry her. — will never marry woman without some money. He
cannot afford it. — what claims has —, what attractions has she
beyond youth, health, and good humour, that could make him for her sake,
forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well? As to what
restraint the apprehension of disgrace in the corps might throw on
dishonourable elopement with her, am not able to judge; for know
nothing of the effects that such step might produce. But as to your
other objection, am afraid it will hardly hold good. — has no
brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father's
behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever
seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would
do as little, and think as little about it, as any father could do, in
such matter."

"But can you think that — is so lost to every thing but love of him,
as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage?"

"It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed," replied —, with
tears in her eyes, "that sister's sense of decency and virtue in such
point should admit of doubt. But, really, know not what to say.
Perhaps am not doing her justice. But she is very young; she has never
been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half year,
nay, for twelvemonth, she has been given up to nothing but amusement
and vanity. She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle
and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her way.
Since the ----shire were first quartered in —, nothing but love,
flirtation, and officers, have been in her head. She has been doing
every thing in her power by thinking and talking on the subject, to give
shall call it? susceptibility to her feelings; which are
naturally lively enough. — we all know that — has every charm of
person and address that can captivate woman."

"But you see that —," said her aunt, "does not think so ill of
—, as to believe him capable of the attempt."

"Of whom does — ever think ill? — who is there, whatever might be
their former conduct, that she would believe capable of such an attempt,
till it were proved against them? But — knows, as well as do, what
— really is. We both know that he has been profligate in every
sense of the word. That he has neither integrity nor honour. That he is
as false and deceitful, as he is insinuating."

"— do you really know all this?" cried Mrs. —, whose curiosity
as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.

do, indeed," replied —, colouring. told you the other day,
of his infamous behaviour to Mr. —; and you, yourself, when last at
—, heard in what manner he spoke of the man, who had behaved
with such forbearance and liberality towards him. — there are other
circumstances which am not at it is not worth while to
relate; but his lies about the whole — family are endless. From
what he said of — —, was thoroughly prepared to see proud,
reserved, disagreeable girl. Yet he knew to the contrary himself. He
must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found
her."

"But does — know nothing of this? Can she be ignorant of what you
and — seem so well to understand?"

"Oh, that is the worst of all. Till was in —, and saw
so much both of Mr. — and his relation, — —, was
ignorant of the truth myself. — when returned home, the ----shire
was to leave — in week or fortnight's time. As that was the
case, neither —, to whom related the whole, nor thought it
necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it
apparently be to any one, that the good opinion which all the
neighbourhood had of him, should then be overthrown? — even when it
was settled that — should go with Mrs. —, the necessity of
opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _she_ could
be in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such
consequence as _this_ should ensue, you may easily believe was far
enough from my thoughts."

"When they all removed to —, therefore, you had no reason,
suppose, to believe them fond of each other."

"Not the slightest. can remember no symptom of affection on either
side; and had any thing of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware
that ours is not family, on which it could be thrown away. When first
he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all
were. Every girl in, or near —, was out of her senses about him
for the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any
particular attention, and, consequently, after moderate period of
extravagant and wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others
of the regiment, who treated her with more distinction, again became her
favourites."

It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added
to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject, by
its repeated discussion, no other could detain them from it long, during
the whole of the journey. From —'s thoughts it was never absent.
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self reproach, she could find
no interval of ease or forgetfulness.

They travelled as expeditiously as possible; and sleeping one night on
the road, reached — by dinner-time the next day. It was
comfort to — to consider that — could not have been wearied
by long expectations.

The little —, attracted by the sight of chaise, were standing
on the steps of the house, as they entered the paddock; and when the
carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their
faces, and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in variety of
capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.

— jumped out; and, after giving each of them an hasty kiss,
hurried into the vestibule, where —, who came running down stairs
from her mother's apartment, immediately met her.

—, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the
eyes of both, lost not moment in asking whether any thing had been
heard of the fugitives.

"Not yet," replied —. "But now that my dear uncle is come, hope
every thing will be well."

"We have heard only once. He wrote me few lines on —, to say
that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his directions, which
particularly begged him to do. He merely added, that he should not write
again, till he had something of importance to mention."

"My mother is tolerably well, trust; though her spirits are greatly
shaken. She is up stairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
all. She does not yet leave her dressing-room. — and —, thank
—! are quite well."

"But are you?" cried —. "You look pale. How much you
must have gone through!"

Her sister, however, assured her, of her being perfectly well; and their
conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. — were
engaged with their children, was now put an end to, by the approach of
the whole party. — ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.

When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which —
had already asked, were of course repeated by the others, and they soon
found that — had no intelligence to give. The sanguine hope of good,
however, which the benevolence of her heart suggested, had not yet
deserted her; she still expected that it would all end well, and that
every morning would bring some letter, either from — or her father,
to explain their proceedings, and perhaps announce the marriage.

Mrs. —, to whose apartment they all repaired, after few minutes
conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villanous
conduct of —, and complaints of her own sufferings and ill usage;
blaming every body but the person to whose ill judging indulgence the
errors of her daughter must be principally owing.

"If had been able," said she, "to carry my point of going to —,
with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but poor dear —
had nobody to take care of her. Why did the — ever let her go out
of their sight? am sure there was some great neglect or other on their
side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such thing, if she had
been well looked after. always thought they were very unfit to have
the charge of her; but was over-ruled, as always am. Poor dear
child! — now here's Mr. — gone away, and know he will fight
—, wherever he meets him, and then he will be killed, and what is
to become of us all? The — will turn us out, before he is cold
in his grave; and if you are not kind to us, brother, do not know what
we shall do."

They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. —, after
general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told
her that he meant to be in — the very next day, and would assist
Mr. — in every endeavour for recovering —.

"Do not give way to useless alarm," added he, "though it is right to be
prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
It is not quite week since they left —. In few days more, we
may gain some news of them, and till we know that they are not married,
and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as
lost. As soon as get to town, shall go to my brother, and make him
come home with me to — —, and then we may consult
together as to what is to be done."

"Oh! my dear brother," replied Mrs. —, "that is exactly what
could most wish for. — now do, when you get to town, find them out,
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
marry. — as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but
tell — she shall have as much money as she chuses, to buy them,
after they are married. —, above all things, keep Mr. — from
fighting. Tell him what dreadful state am am frightened
out of my wits; and have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over me,
such spasms in my side, and pains in my head, and such beatings at
heart, that can get no rest by night nor by day. — tell my dear
—, not to give any directions about her clothes, till she has seen
me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother,
how kind you are! know you will contrive it all."

But Mr. —, though he assured her again of his earnest endeavours
in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to her, as well in
her hopes as her fears; and, after talking with her in this manner till
dinner was on table, they left her to vent all her feelings on the
housekeeper, who attended, in the absence of her daughters.

Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real
occasion for such seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to
oppose it, for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her
tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it
better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could
most trust, should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the
subject.

In the dining-room they were soon joined by — and —, who had been
too busily engaged in their separate apartments, to make their
appearance before. One came from her books, and the other from her
toilette. The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change
was visible in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or
the anger which she had herself incurred in the business, had given
something more of fretfulness than usual, to the accents of —. As
for —, she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to —
with countenance of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at
table,

"This is most unfortunate affair; and will probably be much talked of.
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of
each other, the balm of sisterly consolation."

Then, perceiving in — no inclination of replying, she added,
"— as the event must be for —, we may draw from it this useful
lesson; that loss of virtue in female is one false
step involves her in endless her reputation is no less
brittle than it is that she cannot be too much guarded
in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex."

— lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to
make any reply. —, however, continued to console herself with such
kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.

In the afternoon, the two elder — — were able to be for half an
hour by themselves; and — instantly availed herself of the
opportunity of making many enquiries, which — was equally eager to
satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel
of this event, which — considered as all but certain, and —
— could not assert to be wholly impossible; the former continued
the subject, by saying, "— tell me all and every thing about it, which
have not already heard. Give me farther particulars. What did —
— say? Had they no apprehension of any thing before the elopement
took place? They must have seen them together for ever."

"— — did own that he had often suspected some partiality,
especially on —'s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. am so
grieved for him. His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. He
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
any idea of their not being gone to —: when that apprehension
first got abroad, it hastened his journey."

"— was — convinced that — would not marry? Did he know of
their intending to go off? Had — — seen — himself?"

"Yes; but when questioned by _him_ — denied knowing any thing of
their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it. He did not
repeat his persuasion of their not from _that_, am
inclined to hope, he might have been misunderstood before."

"— till — — came himself, not one of you entertained
doubt, suppose, of their being really married?"

"How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains! felt
little little fearful of my sister's happiness with him in
marriage, because knew that his conduct had not been always quite
right. My father and mother knew nothing of that, they only felt how
imprudent match it must be. — then owned, with very natural
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in —'s last
letter, she had prepared her for such step. She had known, it seems,
of their being in love with each other, many weeks."

"— did — — appear to think ill of — himself? Does he
know his real character?"

must confess that he did not speak so well of — as he formerly
did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant. — since this sad
affair has taken place, it is said, that he left — greatly in
debt; but hope this may be false."

"Oh, —, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him,
this could not have happened!"

"Perhaps it would have been better;" replied her sister. "But to expose
the former faults of any person, without knowing what their present
feelings were, seemed unjustifiable. We acted with the best intentions."

"Could — — repeat the particulars of —'s note to his
wife?"

— then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to —. These
were the contents:

"You will laugh when you know where am gone, and cannot help
laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as am
missed. am going to — —, and if you cannot guess with
who, shall think you simpleton, for there is but one man in the
world love, and he is an angel. should never be happy without
him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at
— of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the
surprise the greater, when write to them, and sign my name —
—. What good joke it will be! can hardly write for
laughing. Pray make my excuses to —, for not keeping my
engagement, and dancing with him to-night. Tell him hope he will
excuse me when he knows all, and tell him will dance with him at
the next ball we meet, with great pleasure. shall send for my
clothes when get to —; but wish you would tell —
to mend great slit in my worked muslin gown, before they are
packed up. Good bye. Give my love to — —, hope you
will drink to our good journey.

"Oh! thoughtless, thoughtless —!" cried — when she had
finished it. "What letter is this, to be written at such moment. But
at least it shews, that _she_ was serious in the object of her journey.
Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side
_scheme_ of infamy. My poor father! how he must have felt it!"

never saw any one so shocked. He could not speak word for full ten
minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in
such confusion!"

"Oh! —," cried —, "was there servant belonging to it, who
did not know the whole story before the end of the day?"

do not hope there to be guarded at such time, is
very difficult. My mother was in hysterics, and though endeavoured to
give her every assistance in my power, am afraid did not do so much
as might have done! But the horror of what might possibly happen,
almost took from me my faculties."

"Your attendance upon her, has been too much for you. You do not look
well. Oh! that had been with you, you have had every care and anxiety
upon yourself alone."

"— and — have been very kind, and would have shared in every
fatigue, am sure, but did not think it right for either of them.
— is slight and delicate, and — studies so much, that her hours
of repose should not be broken in on. My aunt — came to —
on —, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till
— with me. She was of great use and comfort to us all, and lady
— has been very kind; she walked here on — morning to
condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her daughters, if
they could be of use to us."

"She had better have stayed at home," cried —; "perhaps she
_meant_ well, but, under such misfortune as this, one cannot see too
little of one's neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence,
insufferable. Let them triumph over us at distance, and be satisfied."

She then proceeded to enquire into the measures which her father had
intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter.

"He meant, believe," replied —, "to go to —, the place where
they last changed horses, see the postilions, and try if any thing could
be made out from them. His principal object must be, to discover the
number of the hackney coach which took them from —. It had come
with fare from —; and as he thought the circumstance of
gentleman and lady's removing from one carriage into another, might be
remarked, he meant to make enquiries at —. If he could any how
discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare, he
determined to make enquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible
to find out the stand and number of the coach. do not know of any
other designs that he had formed: but he was in such hurry to be gone,
and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that had difficulty in finding
out even so much as this."

The whole party were in hopes of letter from Mr. — the next
morning, but the post came in without bringing single line from him.
His family knew him to be on all common occasions, most negligent and
dilatory correspondent, but at such time, they had hoped for exertion.
They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to
send, but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain. Mr.
— had waited only for the letters before he set off.

When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant
information of what was going on, and their uncle promised, at parting,
to prevail on Mr. — to return to —, as soon as he could, to
the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only
security for her husband's not being killed in duel.

Mrs. — and the children were to remain in — few
days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to
her nieces. She shared in their attendance on Mrs. —, and was
great comfort to them, in their hours of freedom. Their other aunt also
visited them frequently, and always, as she said, with the design of
cheering and heartening them up, though as she never came without
reporting some fresh instance of —'s extravagance or irregularity,
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found
them.

All — seemed striving to blacken the man, who, but three months
before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared to be in debt
to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with
the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman's family.
Every body declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world;
and every body began to find out, that they had always distrusted the
appearance of his goodness. —, though she did not credit above
half of what was said, believed enough to make her former assurance of
her sister's ruin still more certain; and even —, who believed still
less of it, became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now
come, when if they had gone to —, which she had never before
entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained some
news of them.

Mr. — left — on —; on —, his wife received
letter from him; it told them, that on his arrival, he had immediately
found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to — street.
That Mr. — had been to — and —, before his arrival, but
without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now
determined to enquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. —
thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first
coming to —, before they procured lodgings. Mr. — himself
did not expect any success from this measure, but as his brother was
eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it. He added, that Mr.
— seemed wholly disinclined at present, to leave —, and
promised to write again very soon. There was also postscript to this
effect.

have written to — — to desire him to find out, if
possible, from some of the young man's intimates in the regiment,
whether — has any relations or connections, who would be likely to
know in what part of the town he has now concealed himself. If there
were any one, that one could apply to, with probability of gaining
such clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we
have nothing to guide us. — — will, dare say, do every
thing in his power to satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts,
perhaps — could tell us, what relations he has now living, better
than any other person."

— was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for
her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any
information of so satisfactory nature, as the compliment deserved.

She had never heard of his having had any relations, except father and
mother, both of whom had been dead many years. It was possible, however,
that some of his companions in the ----shire, might be able to give more
information; and, though she was not very sanguine in expecting it, the
application was something to look forward to.

Every day at — was now day of anxiety; but the most anxious
part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was
the first grand object of every morning's impatience. Through letters,
whatever of good or bad was to be told, would be communicated, and every
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.

But before they heard again from Mr. —, letter arrived for
their father, from different quarter, from Mr. —; which, as —
had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence,
she accordingly read; and —, who knew what curiosities his
letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise. It was as
follows:

feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by letter
from —. Be assured, my dear —, that Mrs. — and
myself sincerely sympathise with you, and all your respectable
family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest
kind, because proceeding from cause which no time can remove. No
arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe
misfortune; or that may comfort you, under circumstance that
must be of all others most afflicting to parent's mind. The death
of your daughter would have been blessing in comparison of this.
— it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to
suppose, as my dear — informs me, that this licentiousness
of behaviour in your daughter, has proceeded from faulty degree
of indulgence, though, at the same time, for the consolation of
yourself and Mrs. —, am inclined to think that her own
disposition must be naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of
such an enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that may be, you
are grievously to be pitied, in which opinion am not only joined
by Mrs. —, but likewise by lady — and her daughter,
to whom have related the affair. They agree with me in
apprehending that this false step in one daughter, will be
injurious to the fortunes of all the others, for who, as lady
— herself condescendingly says, will connect themselves
with such family. — this consideration leads me moreover to
reflect with augmented satisfaction on certain event of last
—, for had it been otherwise, must have been involved in
all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you then, my dear —,
to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy
child from your affection for ever, and leave her to reap the
fruits of her own heinous offence.

Mr. — did not write again, till he had received an answer from
— —; and then he had nothing of pleasant nature to send.
It was not known that — had single relation, with whom he kept
up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
His former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the
militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship
with any of them. There was no one therefore who could be pointed out,
as likely to give any news of him. — in the wretched state of his own
finances, there was very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to
his fear of discovery by —'s relations, for it had just transpired
that he had left gaming debts behind him, to very considerable
amount. — — believed that more than thousand pounds would
be necessary to clear his expences at —. He owed good deal in
the town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr.
— did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the —
family; — heard them with horror. gamester!" she cried. "This is
wholly unexpected. had not an idea of it."

Mr. — added in his letter, that they might expect to see their
father at home on the following day, which was —. Rendered
spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to
his intreaty that he would return to his family, and
leave it to him to do, whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable
for continuing their pursuit. When Mrs. — was told of this, she did
not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering
what her anxiety for his life had been before.

"What, is he coming home, and without poor —!" she cried. "Sure he
will not leave — before he has found them. Who is to fight —,
and make him marry her, if he comes away?"

As Mrs. — began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she
and her children should go to —, at the same time that Mr. —
came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their
journey, and brought its master back to —.

Mrs. — went away in all the perplexity about — and her
— friend, that had attended her from that part of the world.
His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece;
and the kind of half-expectation which Mrs. — had formed, of
their being followed by letter from him, had ended in nothing.
— had received none since her return, that could come from
—.

The present unhappy state of the family, rendered any other excuse for
the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be
fairly conjectured from _that_, though —, who was by this time
tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware,
that, had she known nothing of —, she could have borne the dread of
—'s infamy somewhat better. It would have spared her, she thought,
one sleepless night out of two.

When Mr. — arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
philosophic composure. He said as little as he had ever been in the
habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him
away, and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of
it.

It was not till the afternoon, when he joined them at tea, that
— ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on her briefly
expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, "—
nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself? It has been my own doing,
and ought to feel it."

"You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so prone to
fall into it! No, —, let me once in my life feel how much have
been to blame. am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression.
It will pass away soon enough."

"She is happy, then," said her father, drily; "and her residence there
will probably be of some duration."

Then, after short silence, he continued, "—, bear you no
ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last —, which,
considering the event, shews some greatness of mind."

They were interrupted by — —, who came to fetch her mother's
tea.

"This is parade," cried he, "which does one good; it gives such an
elegance to misfortune! Another day will do the same; will sit in
my library, in my night cap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble
as perhaps, may defer it, till — runs away."

am not going to run away, —," said —, fretfully; "if
should ever go to —, would behave better than —."

"_You_ go to —!--I would not trust you so near it as — —
for fifty pounds! No, —, have at last learnt to be cautious, and
you will feel the effects of it. No officer is ever to enter my house
again, nor even to pass through the village. Balls will be absolutely
prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters. — you are
never to stir out of doors, till you can prove, that you have spent ten
minutes of every day in rational manner."

"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy. If you are good
girl for the next ten years, will take you to review at the end of
them."

Two days after Mr. —'s return, as — and — were walking
together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the housekeeper
coming towards them, and, concluding that she came to call them to their
mother, went forward to meet her; but, instead of the expected summons,
when they approached her, she said to — —, beg your pardon,
madam, for interrupting you, but was in hopes you might have got some
good news from town, so took the liberty of coming to ask."

"—ar madam," cried Mrs. —, in great astonishment, "don't you know
there is an express come for master from Mr. —? He has been here
this half hour, and master has had letter."

Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech. They
ran through the vestibule into the breakfast room; from thence to the
father was in neither; and they were on the point of
seeking him up stairs with their mother, when they were met by the
butler, who said,

"If you are looking for my master, ma'am, he is walking towards the
little copse."

Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall once more,
and ran across the lawn after their father, who was deliberately
pursuing his way towards small wood on one side of the paddock.

—, who was not so light, nor so much in the habit of running as
—, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath,
came up with him, and eagerly cried out,

"What is there of good to be expected?" said he, taking the letter from
his pocket; "but perhaps you would like to read it."

"Read it aloud," said their father, "for hardly know myself what it is
about."

"At last am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such
as, upon the whole, hope will give you satisfaction. Soon after
you left me on —, was fortunate enough to find out in what
part of — they were. The particulars, reserve till we meet.
It is enough to know they are discovered, have seen them
both----"

— read on; have seen them both. They are not married,
nor can find there was any intention of being so; but if you are
willing to perform the engagements which have ventured to make on
your side, hope it will not be long before they are. All that is
required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her
equal share of the five thousand pounds, secured among your
children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and,
moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during your
life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions, which,
considering every thing, had no hesitation in complying with, as
far as thought myself privileged, for you. shall send this by
express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer. You
will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. —'s
circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to
be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and am happy to
say, there will be some little money, even when all his debts are
discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
If, as conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act
in your name, throughout the whole of this business, will
immediately give directions to — for preparing proper
settlement. There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming
to town again; therefore, stay quietly at —, and depend on
my diligence and care. Send back your answer as soon as you can,
and be careful to write explicitly. We have judged it best, that my
niece should be married from this house, of which hope you will
approve. She comes to us to-day. shall write again as soon as any
thing more is determined on. Your's,

"Is it possible!" cried —, when she had finished. "Can it be
possible that he will marry her?"

"— is not so undeserving, then, as we have thought him;" said her
sister. "My dear father, congratulate you."

Most earnestly did she then intreat him to lose no more time before he
wrote.

"Oh! my dear father," she cried, "come back, and write immediately.
Consider how important every moment is, in such case."

"Let me write for you," said —, "if you dislike the trouble
yourself."

"— may ask?" said —, "but the terms, suppose, must be
complied with."

"Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But there
are two things that want very much to is, how much money
your uncle has laid down, to bring it about; and the other, how am
ever to pay him."

mean, that no man in his senses, would marry — on so slight
temptation as one hundred a-year during my life, and fifty after am
gone."

"That is very true," said —; "though it had not occurred to me
before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain! Oh!
it must be my uncle's doings! Generous, good man, am afraid he has
distressed himself. small sum could not do all this."

"No," said her father, "—'s fool, if he takes her with
farthing less than ten thousand pounds. should be sorry to think so
ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship."

"Ten thousand pounds! — forbid! How is half such sum to be
repaid?"

Mr. — made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought, continued
silent till they reached the house. Their father then went to the
library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.

"— they are really to be married!" cried —, as soon as they
were by themselves. "How strange this is! — for _this_ we are to be
thankful. That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness,
and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice! Oh, —!"

comfort myself with thinking," replied —, "that he certainly would
not marry —, if he had not real regard for her. Though our kind
uncle has done something towards clearing him, cannot believe that ten
thousand pounds, or any thing like it, has been advanced. He has
children of his own, and may have more. How could he spare half ten
thousand pounds?"

"If we are ever able to learn what —'s debts have been," said
—, "and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall
exactly know what Mr. — has done for them, because — has
not sixpence of his own. The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be
requited. Their taking her home, and affording her their personal
protection and countenance, is such sacrifice to her advantage, as
years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time she is
actually with them! If such goodness does not make her miserable now,
she will never deserve to be happy! What meeting for her, when she
first sees my aunt!"

"We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side," said
—: hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to marry
her is proof, will believe, that he is come to right way of
thinking. Their mutual affection will steady them; and flatter myself
they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational manner, as may in
time make their past imprudence forgotten."

"Their conduct has been such," replied —, "as neither you, nor
nor any body, can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it."

It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood
perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to the library,
therefore, and asked their father, whether he would not wish them to
make it known to her. He was writing, and, without raising his head,
coolly replied,

— took the letter from his writing table, and they went up
stairs together. — and — were both with Mrs. —: one
communication would, therefore, do for all. After slight preparation
for good news, the letter was read aloud. Mrs. — could hardly
contain herself. As soon as — had read Mr. —'s hope of —'s
being soon married, her joy burst forth, and every following sentence
added to its exuberance. She was now in an irritation as violent from
delight, as she had ever been fidgetty from alarm and vexation. To know
that her daughter would be married was enough. She was disturbed by no
fear for her felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.

"My dear, dear —!" she cried: "— is delightful will
be shall see her will be married at
good, kind knew how it would knew he would manage
every thing. How long to see her! and to see dear — too! But the
clothes, the wedding clothes! will write to my sister — about
them directly. —, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how
much he will give her. —ay, stay, will go myself. Ring the bell,
—, for —. will put on my things in moment. My dear, dear
—!--— merry we shall be together when we meet!"

Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
—'s behaviour laid them all under.

"For we must attribute this happy conclusion," she added, "in great
measure, to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has pledged himself
to assist Mr. — with money."

"Well," cried her mother, "it is all very right; who should do it but
her own uncle? If he had not had family of his own, and my children
must have had all his money you know, and it is the first time we have
ever had any thing from him, except few presents. Well! am so happy.
In short time, shall have daughter married. Mrs. —! How well
it sounds. — she was only sixteen last —. My dear —, am in
such flutter, that am sure can't write; so will dictate, and you
write for me. We will settle with your father about the money
afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately."

She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and
cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had
not —, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait, till her
father was at leisure to be consulted. One day's delay she observed,
would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy, to be quite
so obstinate as usual. Other schemes too came into her head.

will go to —," said she, "as soon as am dressed, and tell the
good, good news to my sister —. — as come back, can call on
— — and Mrs. —. —, run down and order the carriage. An
airing would do me great deal of good, am sure. Girls, can do any
thing for you in —? Oh! here comes —. My dear —, have you
heard the good news? — — is going to be married; and you shall
all have bowl of punch, to make merry at her wedding."

Mrs. — began instantly to express her joy. — received her
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.

Poor —'s situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no
worse, she had need to be thankful. She felt it so; and though, in
looking forward, neither rational happiness nor worldly prosperity,
could be justly expected for her sister; in looking back to what they
had feared, only two hours ago, she felt all the advantages of what they
had gained.

Mr. — had very often wished, before this period of his life, that,
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum, for
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
him. He now wished it more than ever. Had he done his duty in that
respect, — need not have been indebted to her uncle, for whatever of
honour or credit could now be purchased for her. The satisfaction of
prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in — — to be
her husband, might then have rested in its proper place.

He was seriously concerned, that cause of so little advantage to any
one, should be forwarded at the sole expence of his and
he was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his
assistance, and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.

When first Mr. — had married, economy was held to be perfectly
useless; for, of course, they were to have son. This son was to join
in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow
and younger children would by that means be provided for. Five daughters
successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs.
—, for many years after —'s birth, had been certain that he
would. This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too
late to be saving. Mrs. — had no turn for economy, and her
husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
income.

Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. — and
the children. But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the
latter, depended on the will of the parents. This was one point, with
regard to — at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr. —
could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him. In
terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though
expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect
approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the
engagements that had been made for him. He had never before supposed
that, could — be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be
done with so little inconvenience to himself, as by the present
arrangement. He would scarcely be ten pounds a-year the loser, by the
hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket
allowance, and the continual presents in money, which passed to her,
through her mother's hands, —'s expences had been very little within
that sum.

That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was
another very welcome surprise; for his chief wish at present, was to
have as little trouble in the business as possible. When the first
transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were
over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence. His letter was
soon dispatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was
quick in its execution. He begged to know farther particulars of what he
was indebted to his brother; but was too angry with —, to send any
message to her.

The good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate
speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in the latter with decent
philosophy. To be sure it would have been more for the advantage of
conversation, had — — — come upon the town; or, as the
happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farm
house. But there was much to be talked of, in marrying her; and the
good-natured wishes for her well-doing, which had proceeded before, from
all the spiteful old ladies in —, lost but little of their spirit
in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband, her
misery was considered certain.

It was fortnight since Mrs. — had been down stairs, but on this
happy day, she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in
spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave damp to her
triumph. The marriage of daughter, which had been the first object of
her wishes, since — was sixteen, was now on the point of
accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those
attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and
servants. She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for
proper situation for her daughter, and, without knowing or considering
what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and
importance.

"Haye-— might do," said she, "if the — would quit it, or the
great house at —, if the drawing-room were larger; but — is
too far off! could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for
— —, the attics are dreadful."

Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption, while the
servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to her, "Mrs.
—, before you take any, or all of these houses, for your son and
daughter, let us come to right understanding. Into _one_ house in this
neighbourhood, they shall never have admittance. will not encourage
the impudence of either, by receiving them at —."

long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. — was firm: it
soon led to another; and Mrs. — found, with amazement and horror,
that her husband would not advance guinea to buy clothes for his
daughter. He protested that she should receive from him no mark of
affection whatever, on the occasion. Mrs. — could hardly comprehend
it. That his anger could be carried to such point of inconceivable
resentment, as to refuse his daughter privilege, without which her
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all that she could believe
possible. She was more alive to the disgrace, which the want of new
clothes must reflect on her daughter's nuptials, than to any sense of
shame at her eloping and living with —, fortnight before they
took place.

— was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of
the moment, been led to make Mr. — acquainted with their fears for
her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper
termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its
unfavourable beginning, from all those who were not immediately on the
spot.

She had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means. There were
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
but at the same time, there was no one, whose knowledge of sister's
frailty would have mortified her so much. Not, however, from any fear of
disadvantage from it, individually to herself; for at any rate, there
seemed gulf impassable between them. Had —'s marriage been
concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that
Mr. — would connect himself with family, where to every other
objection would now be added, an alliance and relationship of the
nearest kind with the man whom he so justly scorned.

From such connection she could not wonder that he should shrink. The
wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his
feeling in —, could not in rational expectation survive such
blow as this. She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she
hardly knew of what. She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
longer hope to be benefited by it. She wanted to hear of him, when there
seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence. She was convinced that
she could have been happy with him; when it was no longer likely they
should meet.

What triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the
proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago, would now
have been gladly and gratefully received! He was as generous, she
doubted not, as the most generous of his sex. But while he was mortal,
there must be triumph.

She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man, who, in
disposition and talents, would most suit her. His understanding and
temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes. It
was an union that must have been to the advantage of both; by her ease
and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved,
and from his judgment, information, and knowledge of the world, she must
have received benefit of greater importance.

But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what
connubial felicity really was. An union of different tendency, and
precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their
family.

How — and — were to be supported in tolerable independence,
she could not imagine. But how little of permanent happiness could
belong to couple who were only brought together because their passions
were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.

Mr. — soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. —'s
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurances of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with intreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again. The principal
purport of his letter was to inform them, that Mr. — had resolved
on quitting the —.

"It was greatly my wish that he should do so," he added, "as soon
as his marriage was fixed on. — think you will agree with me,
in considering removal from that corps as highly advisable, both
on his account and my niece's. It is Mr. —'s intention to go
into the regulars; and, among his former friends, there are still
some who are able and willing to assist him in the army. He has the
promise of an ensigncy in — regiment, now quartered in
the —. It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of
the kingdom. He promises fairly, and hope among different people,
where they may each have character to preserve, they will both be
more prudent. have written to — —, to inform him of
our present arrangements, and to request that he will satisfy the
various creditors of Mr. — in and near —, with
assurances of speedy payment, for which have pledged myself. —
will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances
to his creditors in —, of whom shall subjoin list,
according to his information. He has given in all his debts; hope
at least he has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and
all will be completed in week. They will then join his regiment,
unless they are first invited to —; and understand from
Mrs. —, that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all,
before she leaves the —. She is well, and begs to be dutifully
remembered to you and her

Mr. — and his daughters saw all the advantages of —'s removal
from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. — could do. But Mrs.
—, was not so well pleased with it. —'s being settled in the
—, just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her
company, for she had by no means given up her plan of their residing in
—, was severe disappointment; and besides, it was such
pity that — should be taken from regiment where she was acquainted
with every body, and had so many favourites.

"She is so fond of Mrs. —," said she, "it will be quite shocking
to send her away! — there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in —
regiment."

His daughter's request, for such it might be considered, of being
admitted into her family again, before she set off for the —,
received at first an absolute negative. But — and —, who
agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister's feelings and
consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents,
urged him so earnestly, yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her
and her husband at —, as soon as they were married, that he was
prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished. — their
mother had the satisfaction of knowing, that she should be able to shew
her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to
the —. When Mr. — wrote again to his brother, therefore, he
sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon
as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to —. —
was surprised, however, that — should consent to such scheme,
and, had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him
would have been the last object of her wishes.

Their sister's wedding day arrived; and — and — felt for her
probably more than she felt for herself. The carriage was sent to meet
them at and they were to return in it, by dinner-time. Their
arrival was dreaded by the elder — —; and — more especially,
who gave — the feelings which would have attended herself, had _she_
been the culprit, was wretched in the thought of what her sister must
endure.

They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast room, to receive
them. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. —, as the carriage drove up to
the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed,
anxious, uneasy.

—'s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and
she ran into the room. Her mother stepped forwards, embraced her, and
welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand with an affectionate smile to
—, who followed his lady, and wished them both joy, with an
alacrity which shewed no doubt of their happiness.

Their reception from Mr. —, to whom they then turned, was not quite
so cordial. His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely
opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was
enough to provoke him. — was disgusted, and even — — was
shocked. — was — still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and
fearless. She turned from sister to sister, demanding their
congratulations, and when at length they all sat down, looked eagerly
round the room, took notice of some little alteration in it, and
observed, with laugh, that it was great while since she had been
there.

— was not at all more distressed than herself, but his manners
were always so pleasing, that had his character and his marriage been
exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he
claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all. — had
not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat down,
resolving within herself, to draw no limits in future to the impudence
of an impudent man. _She_ blushed, and — blushed; but the cheeks of
the two who caused their confusion, suffered no variation of colour.

There was no want of discourse. The bride and her mother could neither
of them talk fast enough; and —, who happened to sit near
—, began enquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood,
with good humoured ease, which she felt very unable to equal in her
replies. They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the
world. Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and — led
voluntarily to subjects, which her sisters would not have alluded to for
the world.

"Only think of its being three months," she cried, "since went away;
it seems but fortnight declare; and yet there have been things
enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when went away, am sure
had no more idea of being married till came back again! though
thought it would be very good fun if was."

Her father lifted up his eyes. — was distressed. — looked
expressively at —; but she, who never heard nor saw any thing of
which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued, "—! mamma, do the
people here abouts know am married to-day? was afraid they might
not; and we overtook — — in his curricle, so was
determined he should know it, and so let down the side glass next to
him, and took off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window
frame, so that he might see the ring, and then bowed and smiled like
any thing."

— could bear it no longer. She got up, and ran out of the room;
and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to
the dining-parlour. She then joined them soon enough to see —, with
anxious parade, walk up to her mother's right hand, and hear her say to
her eldest sister, "—! —, take your place now, and you must go
lower, because am married woman."

It was not to be supposed that time would give — that embarrassment,
from which she had been so wholly free at first. Her ease and good
spirits increased. She longed to see Mrs. —, the —, and all
their other neighbours, and to hear herself called "Mrs. —," by
each of them; and in the mean time, she went after dinner to shew her
ring and boast of being married, to Mrs. — and the two housemaids.

"Well, mamma," said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast
room, "and what do you think of my husband? Is not he charming man?
am sure my sisters must all envy me. only hope they may have half my
good luck. They must all go to —. That is the place to get
husbands. What pity it is, mamma, we did not all go."

"Very true; and if had my will, we should. But my dear —, don't
at all like your going such way off. Must it be so?"

"Oh, lord! is nothing in that. shall like it of all
things. You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us. We
shall be at — all the winter, and dare say there will be some
balls, and will take care to get good partners for them all."

"— then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters
behind you; and dare say shall get husbands for them before the
winter is over."

thank you for my share of the favour," said —; "but do not
particularly like your way of getting husbands."

Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them. Mr. —
had received his commission before he left —, and he was to join
his regiment at the end of fortnight.

No one but Mrs. —, regretted that their stay would be so short; and
she made the most of the time, by visiting about with her daughter, and
having very frequent parties at home. These parties were acceptable to
all; to avoid family circle was even more desirable to such as did
think, than such as did not.

—'s affection for —, was just what — had expected to
find it; not equal to —'s for him. She had scarcely needed her
present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that
their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love, rather
than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring
for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain
that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and
if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity
of having companion.

— was exceedingly fond of him. He was her dear — on every
occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He did every
thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on
the first of —, than any body else in the country.

One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two
elder sisters, she said to —,

"—, never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, believe. You were
not by, when told mamma, and the others, all about it. Are not you
curious to hear how it was managed?"

"No really," replied —; think there cannot be too little said
on the subject."

"La! You are so strange! But must tell you how it went off. We were
married, you know, at —. Clement's, because —'s lodgings were in
that parish. — it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
o'clock. My uncle and aunt and were to go together; and the others
were to meet us at the church. Well, — morning came, and was in
such fuss! was so afraid you know that something would happen to put
it off, and then should have gone quite distracted. — there was my
aunt, all the time was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if
she was reading sermon. However, did not hear above one word in ten,
for was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear —. longed to
know whether he would be married in his blue coat.

"Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; thought it would never
be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle and aunt
were horrid unpleasant all the time was with them. If you'll believe
me, did not once put my foot out of doors, though was there
fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or any thing. To be sure — was
rather thin, but however the little — was open. Well, and so just
as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon business
to that horrid man Mr. —. — then, you know, when once they get
together, there is no end of it. Well, was so frightened did not
know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond
the hour, we could not be married all day. But, luckily, he came back
again in ten minutes time, and then we all set out. However,
recollected afterwards, that if he _had_ been prevented going, the
wedding need not be put off, for Mr. — might have done as well."

"Oh, was to come there with —, you know. But gracious me!
quite forgot! ought not to have said word about it. promised
them so faithfully! What will — say? It was to be such secret!"

"If it was to be secret," said —, "say not another word on the
subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further."

"Oh! certainly," said —, though burning with curiosity; "we will
ask you no questions."

"Thank you," said —, "for if you did, should certainly tell you
all, and then — would be angry."

On such encouragement to ask, — was forced to put it out of her
power, by running away.

But to live in ignorance on such point was impossible; or at least it
was impossible not to try for information. Mr. — had been at her
sister's wedding. It was exactly scene, and exactly among people,
where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her
brain; but she was satisfied with none. Those that best pleased her, as
placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable. She
could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing sheet of paper,
wrote short letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what
— had dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
intended.

"You may readily comprehend," she added, "what my curiosity must be to
know how person unconnected with any of us, and (comparatively
speaking) stranger to our family, should have been amongst you at such
time. Pray write instantly, and let me understand it is,
for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which — seems to
think necessary; and then must endeavour to be satisfied with
ignorance."

"Not that _shall_ though," she added to herself, as she finished the
letter; "and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable
manner, shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it
out."

—'s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to
— privately of what — had let fall; — was glad of
it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any
satisfaction, she had rather be without confidante.

— had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter, as
soon as she possibly could. She was no sooner in possession of it, than
hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to be
interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches, and prepared to be
happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not
contain denial.

have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole
morning to answering it, as foresee that _little_ writing will
not comprise what have to tell you. must confess myself
surprised by your application; did not expect it from _you_.
Don't think me angry, however, for only mean to let you know,
that had not imagined such enquiries to be necessary on _your_
side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my
impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as nothing
but the belief of your being party concerned, would have allowed
him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
ignorant, must be more explicit. On the very day of my coming
home from —, your uncle had most unexpected visitor. Mr.
— called, and was shut up with him several hours. It was all
over before arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked
as _your's_ seems to have been. He came to tell Mr. — that
he had found out where your sister and Mr. — were, and that
he had seen and talked with them both, — repeatedly, —
once. From what can collect, he left — only one day
after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting
for them. The motive professed, was his conviction of its being
owing to himself that —'s worthlessness had not been so well
known, as to make it impossible for any young woman of character,
to love or confide in him. He generously imputed the whole to his
mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath
him, to lay his private actions open to the world. His character
was to speak for itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step
forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil, which had been brought on
by himself. If he _had another_ motive, am sure it would never
disgrace him. He had been some days in town, before he was able to
discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was
more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this, was another
reason for his resolving to follow us. There is lady, it seems,
Mrs. —, who was some time ago governess to — —, and was
dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation, though
he did not say what. She then took large house in —-street,
and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings. This Mrs.
— was, he knew, intimately acquainted with —; and he
went to her for intelligence of him, as soon as he got to town. But
it was two or three days before he could get from her what he
wanted. She would not betray her trust, suppose, without bribery
and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be
found. — indeed had gone to her, on their first arrival in
—, and had she been able to receive them into her house, they
would have taken up their abode with her. At length, however, our
kind friend procured the wished-for direction. They were in
street. He saw —, and afterwards insisted on seeing —.
His first object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade
her to quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her
friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive her,
offering his assistance, as far as it would go. But he found —
absolutely resolved on remaining where she was. She cared for none
of her friends, she wanted no help of his, she would not hear of
leaving —. She was sure they should be married some time or
other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were her
feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite
marriage, which, in his very first conversation with —, he
easily learnt, had never been _his_ design. He confessed himself
obliged to leave the regiment, on account of some debts of honour,
which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the
ill-consequences of —'s flight, on her own folly alone. He
meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future
situation, he could conjecture very little about it. He must go
somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have
nothing to live on. Mr. — asked him why he had not married your
sister at once. Though Mr. — was not imagined to be very rich,
he would have been able to do something for him, and his situation
must have been benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to
this question, that — still cherished the hope of more
effectually making his fortune by marriage, in some other country.
Under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof
against the temptation of immediate relief. They met several times,
for there was much to be discussed. — of course wanted more
than he could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable.
Every thing being settled between _them_, Mr. —'s next step was
to make your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in
—-street the evening before came home. But Mr. —
could not be seen, and Mr. — found, on further enquiry, that
your father was still with him, but would quit town the next
morning. He did not judge your father to be person whom he could
so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed
seeing him, till after the departure of the former. He did not
leave his name, and till the next day, it was only known that
gentleman had called on business. On — he came again. Your
father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as said before, they
had great deal of talk together. They met again on —, and
then saw him too. It was not all settled before —: as soon
as it was, the express was sent off to —. But our visitor
was very obstinate. fancy, —, that obstinacy is the real
defect of his character after all. He has been accused of many
faults at different times; but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was
to be done that he did not do himself; though am sure (and do
not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it,) your
uncle would most readily have settled the whole. They battled it
together for long time, which was more than either the gentleman
or lady concerned in it deserved. But at last your uncle was forced
to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to his niece,
was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it,
which went sorely against the grain; and really believe your
letter this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an
explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give
the praise where it was due. But, —, this must go no farther
than yourself, or — at most. You know pretty well, suppose,
what has been done for the young people. His debts are to be paid,
amounting, believe, to considerably more than thousand pounds,
another thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his
commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him
alone, was such as have given above. It was owing to him, to his
reserve, and want of proper consideration, that —'s character
had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been
received and noticed as he was. Perhaps there was some truth in
_this_; though doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody's_
reserve, can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this
fine talking, my dear —, you may rest perfectly assured, that
your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit
for _another interest_ in the affair. When all this was resolved
on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at
—; but it was agreed that he should be in — once more
when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to
receive the last finish. believe have now told you every thing.
It is relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise;
hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure. — came to
us; and — had constant admission to the house. _He_ was
exactly what he had been, when knew him in —; but
would not tell you how little was satisfied with _her_ behaviour
while she staid with us, if had not perceived, by —'s letter
last —, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of
piece with it, and therefore what now tell you, can give you no
fresh pain. talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner,
representing to her all the wickedness of what she had done, and
all the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If she heard me,
it was by good luck, for am sure she did not listen. was
sometimes quite provoked, but then recollected my dear —
and —, and for their sakes had patience with her. Mr. — was
punctual in his return, and as — informed you, attended the
wedding. He dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again
on — or —. Will you be very angry with me, my dear
—, if take this opportunity of saying (what was never bold
enough to say before) how much like him. His behaviour to us has,
in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in —.
His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but
little more liveliness, and _that_, if he marry _prudently_, his
wife may teach him. thought him very hardly ever
mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion. Pray forgive
me, if have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so
far, as to exclude me from shall never be quite happy till
have been all round the park. low phaeton, with nice little
pair of ponies, would be the very thing. But must write no more.
The children have been wanting me this half hour. Your's, very
sincerely,

The contents of this letter threw — into flutter of spirits,
in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the
greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had
produced of what Mr. — might have been doing to forward her sister's
match, which she had feared to encourage, as an exertion of goodness too
great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the
pain of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true!
He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on himself all the
trouble and mortification attendant on such research; in which
supplication had been necessary to woman whom he must abominate and
despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason with,
persuade, and finally bribe, the man whom he always most wished to
avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce. He had
done all this for girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem. Her
heart did whisper, that he had done it for her. But it was hope
shortly checked by other considerations, and she soon felt that even her
vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection for
her, for woman who had already refused him, as able to overcome
sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with —.
Brother-in-law of —! Every kind of pride must revolt from the
connection. He had to be sure done much. She was ashamed to think how
much. But he had given reason for his interference, which asked no
extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel
he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising
it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement,
she could, perhaps, believe, that remaining partiality for her, might
assist his endeavours in cause where her peace of mind must be
materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that
they were under obligations to person who could never receive
return. They owed the restoration of —, her character, every thing
to him. Oh! how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation
she had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed
towards him. For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him.
Proud that in cause of compassion and honour, he had been able to get
the better of himself. She read over her aunt's commendation of him
again and again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased her. She was even
sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how
steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and
confidence subsisted between Mr. — and herself.

She was roused from her seat, and her reflections, by some one's
approach; and before she could strike into another path, she was
overtaken by —.

am afraid interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?" said he,
as he joined her.

"You certainly do," she replied with smile; "but it does not follow
that the interruption must be unwelcome."

should be sorry indeed, if it were. _We_ were always good friends;
and now we are better."

do not know. Mrs. — and — are going in the carriage to
—. — so, my dear sister, find from our uncle and aunt, that
you have actually seen —."

almost envy you the pleasure, and yet believe it would be too much
for me, or else could take it in my way to —. — you saw the
old housekeeper, suppose? Poor —, she was always very fond of
me. But of course she did not mention my name to you."

"That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid turned
out well. At such distance as _that_, you know, things are strangely
misrepresented."

"Certainly," he replied, biting his lips. — hoped she had
silenced him; but he soon afterwards said,

was surprised to see — in town last month. We passed each other
several times. wonder what he can be doing there."

"Perhaps preparing for his marriage with — de —," said
—. "It must be something particular, to take him there at this
time of year."

"Undoubtedly. Did you see him while you were at —? thought
understood from the — that you had."

have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within this year
or two. When last saw her, she was not very promising. am very glad
you liked her. hope she will turn out well."

mention it, because it is the living which ought to have had.
most delightful — —! It would have suited
me in every respect."

"Exceedingly well. should have considered it as part of my duty, and
the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to
to be sure, it would have been such thing for me! The
quiet, the retirement of such life, would have answered all my ideas
of happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear — mention the
circumstance, when you were in —?"

_have_ heard from authority, which thought _as good_, that it was
left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron."

"You have. Yes, there was something in _that_; told you so from the
first, you may remember."

_did_ hear, too, that there was time, when sermon-making was not so
palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually
declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business
had been compromised accordingly."

"You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may remember
what told you on that point, when first we talked of it."

They were now almost at the door of the house, for she had walked fast
to get rid of him; and unwilling for her sister's sake, to provoke him,
she only said in reply, with good-humoured smile,

"Come, Mr. —, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not let us
quarrel about the past. In future, hope we shall be always of one
mind."

She held out her hand; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though
he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.

Mr. — was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation, that he
never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear sister —,
by introducing the subject of it; and she was pleased to find that she
had said enough to keep him quiet.

The day of his and —'s departure soon came, and Mrs. — was
forced to submit to separation, which, as her husband by no means
entered into her scheme of their all going to —, was likely to
continue at least twelvemonth.

"As often as can. But you know married women have never much time for
writing. My sisters may write to _me_. They will have nothing else to
do."

Mr. —'s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife's. He
smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.

"He is as fine fellow," said Mr. —, as soon as they were out of
the house, "as ever saw. He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us
all. am prodigiously proud of him. defy even — — —
himself, to produce more valuable

often think," said she, "that there is nothing so bad as parting with
one's friends. One seems so forlorn without them."

"This is the consequence you see, —, of marrying daughter," said
—. "It must make you better satisfied that your other four are
single."

"It is no such thing. — does not leave me because she is married;
but only because her husband's regiment happens to be so far off. If
that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon."

But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into, was
shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by
an article of news, which then began to be in circulation. The
housekeeper at — had received orders to prepare for the
arrival of her master, who was coming down in day or two, to shoot
there for several weeks. Mrs. — was quite in the fidgets. She
looked at —, and smiled, and shook her head by turns.

"Well, well, and so Mr. — is coming down, sister," (for Mrs.
— first brought her the news.) "—, so much the better. Not that
care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and am sure
never want to see him again. But, however, he is very welcome to
come to —, if he likes it. — who knows what _may_ happen?
But that is nothing to us. You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to
mention word about it. — so, is it quite certain he is coming?"

"You may depend on it," replied the other, "for Mrs. — was in
— last night; saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose
to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certain true. He
comes down on — at the latest, very likely on —. She was
going to the butcher's, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on
—, and she has got three couple of ducks, just fit to be
killed."

— — had not been able to hear of his coming, without changing
colour. It was many months since she had mentioned his name to
—; but now, as soon as they were alone together, she said,

saw you look at me to-day, —, when my aunt told us of the present
report; and know appeared distressed. But don't imagine it was from
any silly cause. was only confused for the moment, because felt
that _should_ be looked at. do assure you, that the news does not
affect me either with pleasure or pain. am glad of one thing, that he
comes alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that am afraid
of _myself_, but dread other people's remarks."

— did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him in
—, she might have supposed him capable of coming there, with no
other view than what was acknowledged; but she still thought him partial
to —, and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming
there _with_ his friend's permission, or being bold enough to come
without it.

"Yet it is hard," she sometimes thought, "that this poor man cannot come
to house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this
speculation! _will_ leave him to himself."

In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her
feelings, in the expectation of his arrival, — could easily
perceive that her spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed,
more unequal, than she had often seen them.

The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents,
about twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.

"As soon as ever Mr. — comes, my dear," said Mrs. —, "you
will wait on him of course."

"No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised if
went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it ended in
nothing, and will not be sent on fool's errand again."

His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention
would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to
—.

"'Tis an etiquette despise," said he. "If he wants our society, let
him seek it. He knows where we live. will not spend _my_ hours in
running after my neighbours every time they go away, and come back
again."

"Well, all know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not
wait on him. But, however, that shan't prevent my asking him to dine
here, am determined. We must have Mrs. — and the — soon.
That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at
table for him."

Consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her
husband's incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her
neighbours might all see Mr. — in consequence of it, before _they_
did. As the day of his arrival drew near,

begin to be sorry that he comes at all," said — to her sister. "It
would be nothing; could see him with perfect indifference, but can
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My mother means well;
but she does not know, no one can know how much suffer from what she
says. Happy shall be, when his stay at — is over!"

wish could say any thing to comfort you," replied —; "but
it is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual
satisfaction of preaching patience to sufferer is denied me, because
you have always so much."

Mr. — arrived. Mrs. —, through the assistance of servants,
contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety
and fretfulness on her side, might be as long as it could. She counted
the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent;
hopeless of seeing him before. But on the third morning after his
arrival in —, she saw him from her dressing-room window,
enter the paddock, and ride towards the house.

Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. — resolutely
kept her place at the table; but —, to satisfy her mother, went
to the saw Mr. — with him, and sat down
again by her sister.

"Some acquaintance or other, my dear, suppose; am sure do not
know."

"La!" replied —, "it looks just like that man that used to be with
him before. Mr. what's his name. That tall, proud man."

"Good gracious! Mr. —!--and so it does vow. Well, any friend of
Mr. —'s will always be welcome here to be sure; but else must
say that hate the very sight of him."

— looked at — with surprise and concern. She knew but little
of their meeting in —, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
after receiving his explanatory letter. Both sisters were uncomfortable
enough. Each felt for the other, and of course for themselves; and their
mother talked on, of her dislike of Mr. —, and her resolution to be
civil to him only as Mr. —'s friend, without being heard by either
of them. But — had sources of uneasiness which could not be
suspected by —, to whom she had never yet had courage to shew Mrs.
—'s letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him.
To —, he could be only man whose proposals she had refused, and
whose merit she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive
information, he was the person, to whom the whole family were indebted
for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an
interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just, as
what — felt for —. Her astonishment at his his
coming to —, to —, and voluntarily seeking her again,
was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered
behaviour in —.

The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half
minute with an additional glow, and smile of delight added lustre to
her eyes, as she thought for that space of time, that his affection and
wishes must still be unshaken. But she would not be secure.

"Let me first see how he behaves," said she; "it will then be early
enough for expectation."

She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to
lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her
sister, as the servant was approaching the door. — looked little
paler than usual, but more sedate than — had expected. On the
gentlemen's appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with
tolerable ease, and with propriety of behaviour equally free from any
symptom of resentment, or any unnecessary complaisance.

— said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down
again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command. She
had ventured only one glance at —. He looked serious as usual; and
she thought, more as he had been used to look in —, than as
she had seen him at —. But, perhaps he could not in her mother's
presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt. It was painful, but
not an improbable, conjecture.

—, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed. He was received by Mrs.
— with degree of civility, which made her two daughters ashamed,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her curtsey and address to his friend.

— particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the
preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was
hurt and distressed to most painful degree by distinction so ill
applied.

—, after enquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. — did, question
which she could not answer without confusion, said scarcely any thing.
He was not seated by her; perhaps that was the reason of his silence;
but it had not been so in —. There he had talked to her
friends, when he could not to herself. But now several minutes elapsed,
without bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable
to resist the impulse of curiosity, she raised her eyes to his face, she
as often found him looking at —, as at herself, and frequently on no
object but the ground. More thoughtfulness, and less anxiety to please
than when they last met, were plainly expressed. She was disappointed,
and angry with herself for being so.

She was in no humour for conversation with any one but himself; and to
him she had hardly courage to speak.

began to be afraid you would never come back again. People _did_ say,
you meant to quit the place entirely at —; but, however, hope
it is not true. great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood,
since you went away. — — is married and settled. — one of my
own daughters. suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have
seen it in the papers. It was in the — and the —, know;
though it was not put in as it ought to be. It was only said, '—,
— —, —. to — — —,' without there being
syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or any thing.
It was my brother —'s drawing up too, and wonder how he came to
make such an awkward business of it. Did you see it?"

— replied that he did, and made his congratulations. —
dared not lift up her eyes. How Mr. — looked, therefore, she could
not tell.

"It is delightful thing, to be sure, to have daughter well married,"
continued her mother, "but at the same time, Mr. —, it is very
hard to have her taken such way from me. They are gone down to
—, place quite northward, it seems, and there they are to
stay, do not know how long. His regiment is there; for suppose you
have heard of his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the
regulars. Thank —! he has _some_ friends, though perhaps not so
many as he deserves."

—, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. —, was in such misery
of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat. It drew from her,
however, the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually
done before; and she asked —, whether he meant to make any stay in
the country at present. few weeks, he believed.

"When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. —," said her mother,
beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please, on Mr.
—'s manor. am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and
will save all the best of the covies for you."

—'s misery increased, at such unnecessary, such officious
attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present, as had
flattered them year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would be
hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant she felt,
that years of happiness could not make — or herself amends, for
moments of such painful confusion.

"The first wish of my heart," said she to herself, "is never more to be
in company with either of them. Their society can afford no pleasure,
that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either
one or the other again!"

Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no
compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing
how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the admiration of her
former lover. When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little;
but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention. He
found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good natured, and as
unaffected, though not quite so chatty. — was anxious that no
difference should be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded
that she talked as much as ever. But her mind was so busily engaged,
that she did not always know when she was silent.

When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. — was mindful of her
intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at
— in few days time.

"You are quite visit in my debt, Mr. —," she added, "for when
you went to town last winter, you promised to take family dinner with
us, as soon as you returned. have not forgot, you see; and assure
you, was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep
your engagement."

— looked little silly at this reflection, and said something of
his concern, at having been prevented by business. They then went away.

Mrs. — had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and dine
there, that day; but, though she always kept very good table, she did
not think any thing less than two courses, could be good enough for
man, on whom she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and
pride of one who had ten thousand a-year.

As soon as they were gone, — walked out to recover her spirits;
or in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects that
must deaden them more. Mr. —'s behaviour astonished and vexed her.

"Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent," said she,
"did he come at all?"

"He could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt, when
he was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come hither? If
he no longer cares for me, why silent? Teazing, teazing, man! will
think no more about him."

Her resolution was for short time involuntarily kept by the approach
of her sister, who joined her with cheerful look, which shewed her
better satisfied with their visitors, than —.

"Now," said she, "that this first meeting is over, feel perfectly
easy. know my own strength, and shall never be embarrassed again by
his coming. am glad he dines here on —. It will then be publicly
seen, that on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent
acquaintance."

"Yes, very indifferent indeed," said —, laughingly. "Oh, —,
take care."

think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with
you as ever."

They did not see the gentlemen again till —; and Mrs. —, in
the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes, which the good
humour, and common politeness of —, in half an hour's visit, had
revived.

On — there was large party assembled at —; and the two,
who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as
sportsmen, were in very good time. When they repaired to the
dining-room, — eagerly watched to see whether — would take
the place, which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by
her sister. Her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to
invite him to sit by herself. On entering the room, he seemed to
hesitate; but — happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was
decided. He placed himself by her.

—, with triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend. He
bore it with noble indifference, and she would have imagined that
— had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes
likewise turned towards Mr. —, with an expression of half-laughing
alarm.

His behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as shewed an
admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded
—, that if left wholly to himself, —'s happiness, and his
own, would be speedily secured. Though she dared not depend upon the
consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour. It
gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in
no cheerful humour. Mr. — was almost as far from her, as the table
could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She knew how little
such situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to
advantage. She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse, but
she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and
cold was their manner, whenever they did. Her mother's ungraciousness,
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to —'s mind;
and she would, at times, have given any thing to be privileged to tell
him, that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of
the family.

She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of
bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away
without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation, than
the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance. Anxious and
uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room, before the
gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to degree, that almost made her
uncivil. She looked forward to their entrance, as the point on which all
her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.

"If he does not come to me, _then_," said she, shall give him up for
ever."

The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
answered her hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the table,
where — — was making tea, and — pouring out the coffee,
in so close confederacy, that there was not single vacancy near her,
which would admit of chair. — on the gentlemen's approaching, one of
the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in whisper,

"The men shan't come and part us, am determined. We want none of them;
do we?"

— had walked away to another part of the room. She followed him with
her eyes, envied every one to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience
enough to help anybody to coffee; and then was enraged against herself
for being so silly!

man who has once been refused! How could ever be foolish enough to
expect renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex, who would not
protest against such weakness as second proposal to the same woman?
There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings!"

She was little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee cup
himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying,

"Mrs. — is with her. The others have been gone on to —,
these three weeks."

She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse
with her, he might have better success. He stood by her, however, for
some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady's whispering
to — again, he walked away.

When the tea-things were removed, and the card tables placed, the ladies
all rose, and — was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when
all her views were overthrown, by seeing him fall victim to her
mother's rapacity for whist players, and in few moments after seated
with the rest of the party. She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
They were confined for the evening at different tables, and she had
nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side
of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself.

Mrs. — had designed to keep the two — gentlemen to
supper; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any of the
others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them.

"Well girls," said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, "—
say you to the day? think every thing has passed off uncommonly well,
assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any ever saw. The
venison was roasted to everybody said, they never saw so fat
haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the
—'s last week; and even Mr. — acknowledged, that the partridges
were remarkably well done; and suppose he has two or three —
cooks at least. —, my dear —, never saw you look in greater
beauty. Mrs. — said so too, for asked her whether you did not. —
what do you think she said besides? 'Ah! Mrs. —, we shall have her
at — at last.' — did indeed. do think Mrs. — is as good
creature as ever her nieces are very pretty behaved girls,
and not at all handsome: like them prodigiously."

Mrs. —, in short, was in very great spirits; she had seen enough of
—'s behaviour to —, to be convinced that she would get him at
last; and her expectations of advantage to her family, when in happy
humour, were so far beyond reason, that she was quite disappointed at
not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals.

"It has been very agreeable day," said — — to —. "The
party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. hope we
may often meet again."

"—, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me.
assure you that have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
agreeable and sensible young man, without having wish beyond it. am
perfectly satisfied from what his manners now are, that he never had any
design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed with
greater sweetness of address, and stronger desire of generally
pleasing than any other man."

"You are very cruel," said her sister, "you will not let me smile, and
are provoking me to it every moment."

"But why should you wish to persuade me that feel more than
acknowledge?"

"That is question which hardly know how to answer. We all love to
instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive
me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make _me_ your
confidante."

few days after this visit, Mr. — called again, and alone. His
friend had left him that morning for —, but was to return home in
ten days time. He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably
good spirits. Mrs. — invited him to dine with them; but, with many
expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.

He should be particularly happy at any time, and if she would
give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.

Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was
accepted with alacrity.

He came, and in such very good time, that the ladies were none of them
dressed. In ran Mrs. — to her daughter's room, in her dressing
gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out,

"My dear —, make haste and hurry down. He is — is
is, indeed. —ke haste, make haste. Here, —, come to —
— this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never mind —
—'s hair."

"We will be down as soon as we can," said —; "but dare say — is
forwarder than either of us, for she went up stairs half an hour ago."

"Oh! hang —! what has she to do with it? Come be quick, be quick!
where is your sash my dear?"

But when her mother was gone, — would not be prevailed on to go down
without one of her sisters.

The same anxiety to get them by themselves, was visible again in the
evening. After tea, Mr. — retired to the library, as was his
custom, and — went up stairs to her instrument. Two obstacles of the
five being thus removed, Mrs. — sat looking and winking at
— and — for considerable time, without making any
impression on them. — would not observe her; and when at last
— did, she very innocently said, "— is the matter mamma? What do
you keep winking at me for? What am to do?"

"Nothing child, nothing. did not wink at you." She then sat still five
minutes longer; but unable to waste such precious occasion, she
suddenly got up, and saying to —,

"Come here, my love, want to speak to you," took her out of the room.
— instantly gave look at —, which spoke her distress at
such premeditation, and her intreaty that _she_ would not give into it.
In few minutes, Mrs. — half opened the door and called out,

"We may as well leave them by themselves you know;" said her mother as
soon as she was in the hall. "— and are going upstairs to sit in
my dressing-room."

— made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained
quietly in the hall, till she and — were out of sight, then returned
into the drawing-room.

Mrs. —'s schemes for this day were ineffectual. — was every
thing that was charming, except the professed lover of her daughter. His
ease and cheerfulness rendered him most agreeable addition to their
evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged officiousness of the
mother, and heard all her silly remarks with forbearance and command
of countenance, particularly grateful to the daughter.

He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went
away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mrs.
—'s means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.

After this day, — said no more of her indifference. Not word passed
between the sisters concerning —; but — went to bed in
the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. —
returned within the stated time. Seriously, however, she felt tolerably
persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman's
concurrence.

— was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. — spent the
morning together, as had been agreed on. The latter was much more
agreeable than his companion expected. There was nothing of presumption
or folly in —, that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him
into silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric than the
other had ever seen him. — of course returned with him to dinner;
and in the evening Mrs. —'s invention was again at work to get
every body away from him and her daughter. —, who had letter
to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea;
for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be
wanted to counteract her mother's schemes.

But on returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished, she
saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her mother
had been too ingenious for her. On opening the door, she perceived her
sister and — standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in
earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of
both as they hastily turned round, and moved away from each other, would
have told it all. _Their_ situation was awkward enough; but _her's_ she
thought was still worse. Not syllable was uttered by either; and
— was on the point of going away again, when —, who as
well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and whispering few
words to her sister, ran out of the room.

— could have no reserves from —, where confidence would give
pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest
emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world.

"'Tis too much!" she added, "by far too much. do not deserve it. Oh!
why is not every body as happy?"

—'s congratulations were given with sincerity, warmth,
delight, which words could but poorly express. Every sentence of
kindness was fresh source of happiness to —. But she would not
allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be
said, for the present.

must go instantly to my mother;" she cried. would not on any
account trifle with her affectionate solicitude; or allow her to hear it
from any one but myself. He is gone to my father already. Oh! —, to
know that what have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear
family! how shall bear so much happiness!"

She then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up the
card party, and was sitting up stairs with —.

—, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease
with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many
previous months of suspense and vexation.

"— this," said she, "is the end of all his friend's anxious
circumspection! of all his sister's falsehood and contrivance! the
happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!"

In few minutes she was joined by —, whose conference with her
father had been short and to the purpose.

He then shut the door, and coming up to her, claimed the good wishes and
affection of sister. — honestly and heartily expressed her
delight in the prospect of their relationship. They shook hands with
great cordiality; and then till her sister came down, she had to listen
to all he had to say, of his own happiness, and of —'s perfections;
and in spite of his being lover, — really believed all his
expectations of felicity, to be rationally founded, because they had for
basis the excellent understanding, and super-excellent disposition of
—, and general similarity of feeling and taste between her and
himself.

It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of
— —'s mind gave glow of such sweet animation to her face, as
made her look handsomer than ever. — simpered and smiled, and hoped
her turn was coming soon. Mrs. — could not give her consent, or
speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings,
though she talked to — of nothing else, for half an hour; and when
Mr. — joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly shewed
how really happy he was.

Not word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their
visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he
turned to his daughter and said,

— went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his
goodness.

"You are good girl;" he replied, "and have great pleasure in
thinking you will be so happily settled. have not doubt of your
doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means unlike. You are
each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so
easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will
always exceed your income."

hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters, would be
unpardonable in _me_."

"Exceed their income! My dear Mr. —," cried his wife, "what are you
talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a-year, and very likely
more." Then addressing her daughter, "—! my dear, dear —, am so
happy! am sure sha'nt get wink of sleep all night. knew how it
would be. always said it must be so, at last. was sure you could not
be so beautiful for nothing! remember, as soon as ever saw him, when
he first came into — last year, thought how likely it was
that you should come together. Oh! he is the handsomest young man that
ever was seen!"

—, —, were all forgotten. — was beyond competition her
favourite child. At that moment, she cared for no other. Her younger
sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness
which she might in future be able to dispense.

— petitioned for the use of the library at —; and —
begged very hard for few balls there every winter.

—, from this time, was of course daily visitor at —;
coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after
supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough
detested, had given him an invitation to dinner, which he thought
himself obliged to accept.

— had now but little time for conversation with her sister; for
while he was present, — had no attention to bestow on any one else;
but she found herself considerably useful to both of them, in those
hours of separation that must sometimes occur. In the absence of —,
he always attached himself to —, for the pleasure of talking of
her; and when — was gone, — constantly sought the same means of
relief.

"He has made me so happy," said she, one evening, "by telling me, that
he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! had not
believed it possible."

suspected as much," replied —. "But how did he account for
it?"

"It must have been his sister's doing. They were certainly no friends to
his acquaintance with me, which cannot wonder at, since he might have
chosen so much more advantageously in many respects. But when they see,
as trust they will, that their brother is happy with me, they will
learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again; though we
can never be what we once were to each other."

"That is the most unforgiving speech," said —, "that ever
heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
the dupe of — —'s pretended regard."

"Would you believe it, —, that when he went to town last —,
he really loved me, and nothing but persuasion of _my_ being
indifferent, would have prevented his coming down again!"

"He made little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his
modesty."

This naturally introduced panegyric from — on his diffidence, and
the little value he put on his own good qualities.

— was pleased to find, that he had not betrayed the interference
of his friend, for, though — had the most generous and forgiving
heart in the world, she knew it was circumstance which must prejudice
her against him.

am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!" cried
—. "Oh! —, why am thus singled from my family, and blessed
above them all! If could but see _you_ as happy! If there _were_ but
such another man for you!"

"If you were to give me forty such men, never could be so happy as
you. Till have your disposition, your goodness, never can have your
happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if have very
good luck, may meet with another Mr. — in time."

The situation of affairs in the — family could not be long
secret. Mrs. — was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. —, and
_she_ ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her
neighbours in —.

The — were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the
world, though only few weeks before, when — had first run away,
they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.

One morning, about week after —'s engagement with — had been
formed, as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the
dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn to the window, by the
sound of carriage; and they perceived chaise and four driving up the
lawn. It was too early in the morning for visitors, and besides, the
equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours. The horses
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
preceded it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, — instantly prevailed on — — to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery. They both set off, and the conjectures of the remaining three
continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown
open, and their visitor entered. It was lady — de —.

They were of course all intending to be surprised; but their
astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of Mrs.
— and —, though she was perfectly unknown to them, even
inferior to what — felt.

She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no
other reply to —'s salutation, than slight inclination of the
head, and sat down without saying word. — had mentioned her
name to her mother, on her ladyship's entrance, though no request of
introduction had been made.

Mrs. — all amazement, though flattered by having guest of such
high importance, received her with the utmost politeness. After sitting
for moment in silence, she said very stiffly to —,

"Yes, madam," said Mrs. —, delighted to speak to lady —.
"She is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all, is lately married,
and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walking with young man,
who believe will soon become part of the family."

"You have very small park here," returned — — after short
silence.

"It is nothing in comparison of —, my lady, dare say; but
assure you it is much larger than — — —'s."

"This must be most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in
summer; the windows are full west."

Mrs. — assured her that they never sat there after dinner; and then
added,

"—y take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr. and
Mrs. — well."

— now expected that she would produce letter for her from
—, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling. But no
letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.

Mrs. —, with great civility, begged her ladyship to take some
refreshment; but — — very resolutely, and not very politely,
declined eating any thing; and then rising up, said to —,

"— —, there seemed to be prettyish kind of little wilderness
on one side of your lawn. should be glad to take turn in it, if you
will favour me with your company."

"Go, my dear," cried her mother, "and shew her ladyship about the
different walks. think she will be pleased with the hermitage."

— obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol,
attended her noble guest down stairs. As they passed through the hall,
— — opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after short survey, to be decent
looking rooms, walked on.

Her carriage remained at the door, and — saw that her
waiting-woman was in it. They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk
that led to the copse; — was determined to make no effort for
conversation with woman, who was now more than usually insolent and
disagreeable.

"How could ever think her like her nephew?" said she, as she looked in
her face.

As soon as they entered the copse, — — began in the following
manner:--

"You can be at no loss, — —, to understand the reason of my
journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why
come."

"Indeed, you are mistaken, —. have not been at all able to account
for the honour of seeing you here."

"— —," replied her ladyship, in an angry tone, "you ought to
know, that am not to be trifled with. But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so. My character has ever been
celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in cause of such
moment as this, shall certainly not depart from it. report of most
alarming nature, reached me two days ago. was told, that not only your
sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that
_you_, that — — —, would, in all likelihood, be soon
afterwards united to my nephew, my own nephew, Mr. —. Though
_know_ it must be scandalous falsehood; though would not injure him
so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, instantly resolved on
setting off for this place, that might make my sentiments known to
you."

"If you believed it impossible to be true," said —, colouring
with astonishment and disdain, wonder you took the trouble of coming
so far. What could your ladyship propose by it?"

"Your coming to —, to see me and my family," said —,
coolly, "will be rather confirmation of it; if, indeed, such report
is in existence."

"If! do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been
industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such
report is spread abroad?"

do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship. _You_
may ask questions, which shall not choose to answer."

"This is not to be borne. — —, insist on being satisfied. Has
he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?"

"It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in moment of infatuation,
have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family. You
may have drawn him in."

"— —, do you know who am? have not been accustomed to such
language as this. am almost the nearest relation he has in the world,
and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns."

"But you are not entitled to know _mine_; nor will such behaviour as
this, ever induce me to be explicit."

"Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the
presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. — is
engaged to _my daughter_. Now what have you to say?"

"Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he will
make an offer to me."

"The engagement between them is of peculiar kind. From their infancy,
they have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of
_his_ mother, as well as of her's. While in their cradles, we planned
the union: and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would
be accomplished, in their marriage, to be prevented by young woman of
inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to
the family! Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends? To his
tacit engagement with — — —? Are you lost to every feeling of
propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say, that from his
earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?"

"Yes, and had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there is no
other objection to my marrying your nephew, shall certainly not be
kept from it, by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry
— — —. You both did as much as you could, in planning the
marriage. Its completion depended on others. If Mr. — is neither by
honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make
another choice? — if am that choice, why may not accept him?"

"Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it. Yes, —
—, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or
friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all. You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by every one connected with him.
Your alliance will be disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned
by any of us."

"These are heavy misfortunes," replied —. "But the wife of Mr.
— must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily
attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have no cause
to repine."

"Obstinate, headstrong girl! am ashamed of you! Is this your gratitude
for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to me on that
score?

"Let us sit down. You are to understand, — —, that came here
with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will be
dissuaded from it. have not been used to submit to any person's whims.
have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment."

"_That_ will make your ladyship's situation at present more pitiable;
but it will have no effect on _me_."

will not be interrupted. Hear me in silence. My daughter and my
nephew are formed for each other. They are descended on the maternal
side, from the same noble line; and, on the father's, from respectable,
honourable, and ancient, though untitled families. Their fortune on both
sides is splendid. They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them? The
upstart pretensions of young woman without family, connections, or
fortune. Is this to be endured! But it must not, shall not be. If you
were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere,
in which you have been brought up."

"In marrying your nephew, should not consider myself as quitting that
sphere. He is gentleman; am gentleman's daughter; so far we are
equal."

"True. You _are_ gentleman's daughter. But who was your mother? Who
are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of their
condition."

"Whatever my connections may be," said —, "if your nephew does
not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_."

Though — would not, for the mere purpose of obliging —
—, have answered this question; she could not but say, after
moment's deliberation,

"— — am shocked and astonished. expected to find more
reasonable young woman. But do not deceive yourself into belief that
will ever recede. shall not go away, till you have given me the
assurance require."

"— certainly _never_ shall give it. am not to be intimidated into
anything so wholly unreasonable. Your ladyship wants Mr. — to marry
your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise, make
_their_ marriage at all more probable? Supposing him to be attached to
me, would _my_ refusing to accept his hand, make him wish to bestow it
on his cousin? Allow me to say, — —, that the arguments with
which you have supported this extraordinary application, have been as
frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely mistaken my
character, if you think can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in _his_ affairs,
cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in
mine. must beg, therefore, to be importuned no farther on the
subject."

"Not so hasty, if you please. have by no means done. To all the
objections have already urged, have still another to add. am no
stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister's infamous
elopement. know it all; that the young man's marrying her, was
patched-up business, at the expence of your father and uncles. — is
_such_ girl to be my nephew's sister? Is _her_ husband, is the son of
his late father's steward, to be his brother? — and what
are you thinking? Are the shades of — to be thus polluted?"

"You can _now_ have nothing farther to say," she resentfully answered.
"You have insulted me, in every possible method. must beg to return to
the house."

— she rose as she spoke. — — rose also, and they turned
back. Her ladyship was highly incensed.

"You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that connection with you,
must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?"

have said no such thing. am only resolved to act in that manner,
which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without
reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me."

"It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the
claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin him in
the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world."

"Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude," replied —, "have any
possible claim on me, in the present instance. No principle of either,
would be violated by my marriage with Mr. —. — with regard to the
resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former
_were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment's
the world in general would have too much sense to join in
the scorn."

"— this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well.
shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, — —, that your
ambition will ever be gratified. came to try you. hoped to find you
reasonable; but depend upon it will carry my point."

In this manner — — talked on, till they were at the door of
the carriage, when turning hastily round, she added,

take no leave of you, — —. send no compliments to your
mother. You deserve no such attention. am most seriously displeased."

— made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her
ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself. She
heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs. Her mother
impatiently met her at the door of the dressing-room, to ask why —
— would not come in again and rest herself.

"She is very fine-looking woman! and her calling here was prodigiously
civil! for she only came, suppose, to tell us the — were well.
She is on her road somewhere, dare say, and so passing through
—, thought she might as well call on you. suppose she had
nothing particular to say to you, —?"

— was forced to give into little falsehood here; for to
acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.

The discomposure of spirits, which this extraordinary visit threw
— into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she for many
hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly. — — it
appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from —,
for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr.
—. It was rational scheme to be sure! but from what the report of
their engagement could originate, — was at loss to imagine;
till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of —,
and _her_ being the sister of —, was enough, at time when the
expectation of one wedding, made every body eager for another, to supply
the idea. She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her
sister must bring them more frequently together. — her neighbours at
— lodge, therefore, (for through their communication with the
—, the report she concluded had reached lady —) had only
set _that_ down, as almost certain and immediate, which _she_ had looked
forward to as possible, at some future time.

In revolving lady —'s expressions, however, she could not help
feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting
in this interference. From what she had said of her resolution to
prevent their marriage, it occurred to — that she must meditate
an application to her nephew; and how _he_ might take similar
representation of the evils attached to connection with her, she dared
not pronounce. She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
was certain, that in enumerating the miseries of marriage with _one_,
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
address him on his weakest side. With his notions of dignity, he would
probably feel that the arguments, which to — had appeared weak
and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.

If he had been wavering before, as to what he should do, which had often
seemed likely, the advice and intreaty of so near relation might
settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy, as dignity
unblemished could make him. In that case he would return no more. —
— might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to
— of coming again to — must give way.

"If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise, should come to
his friend within few days," she added, shall know how to
understand it. shall then give over every expectation, every wish of
his constancy. If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might
have obtained my affections and hand, shall soon cease to regret him
at all."

The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their visitor had
been, was very great; but they obligingly satisfied it, with the same
kind of supposition, which had appeased Mrs. —'s curiosity; and
— was spared from much teazing on the subject.

The next morning, as she was going down stairs, she was met by her
father, who came out of his library with letter in his hand.

She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell
her, was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner
connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck her that it might
be from lady —; and she anticipated with dismay all the
consequent explanations.

She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat down. He
then said,

have received letter this morning that has astonished me
exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
contents. did not know before, that had _two_ daughters on the brink
of matrimony. Let me congratulate you, on very important conquest."

The colour now rushed into —'s cheeks in the instantaneous
conviction of its being letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt;
and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained
himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to
herself; when her father continued,

"You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such matters
as these; but think may defy even _your_ sagacity, to discover the
name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr. —."

"Something very much to the purpose of course. He begins with
congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of
which it seems he has been told, by some of the good-natured, gossiping
—. shall not sport with your impatience, by reading what he says
on that point. What relates to yourself, is as follows. "Having thus
offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. — and myself on
this happy event, let me now add short hint on the subject of another:
of which we have been advertised by the same authority. Your daughter
—, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of —, after
her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of her fate,
may be reasonably looked up to, as one of the most illustrious
personages in this land."

"Can you possibly guess, —, who is meant by this?" "This young
gentleman is blessed in peculiar way, with every thing the heart of
mortal can most property, noble kindred, and extensive
patronage. Yet in spite of all these temptations, let me warn my cousin
—, and yourself, of what evils you may incur, by precipitate
closure with this gentleman's proposals, which, of course, you will be
inclined to take immediate advantage of."

"My motive for cautioning you, is as follows. We have reason to imagine
that his aunt, lady — de —, does not look on the match with
friendly eye."

"_Mr. —_, you see, is the man! Now, —, think _have_
surprised you. Could he, or the —, have pitched on any man, within
the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more
effectually to what they related? Mr. —, who never looks at any
woman but to see blemish, and who probably never looked at _you_ in
his life! It is admirable!"

— tried to join in her father's pleasantry, but could only force
one most reluctant smile. Never had his wit been directed in manner so
little agreeable to her.

"After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship last
night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she
felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that on the score of some
family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give her
consent to what she termed so disgraceful match. thought it my duty
to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and
her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
hastily into marriage which has not been properly sanctioned." "Mr.
— moreover adds," am truly rejoiced that my cousin —'s sad
business has been so well hushed up, and am only concerned that their
living together before the marriage took place, should be so generally
known. must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain
from declaring my amazement, at hearing that you received the young
couple into your house as soon as they were married. It was an
encouragement of vice; and had been the rector of —, should
very strenuously have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them as
christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names
to be mentioned in your hearing." "_That_ is his notion of christian
forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his dear —'s
situation, and his expectation of young olive-branch. But, —, you
look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be _—_,
hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For what do we
live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our
turn?"

"Oh!" cried —, am excessively diverted. But it is so
strange!"

"Yes--_that_ is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other man
it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference, and _your_
pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd! Much as abominate
writing, would not give up Mr. —'s correspondence for any
consideration. Nay, when read letter of his, cannot help giving
him the preference even over —, much as value the impudence and
hypocrisy of my — pray, —, what said — —
about this report? Did she call to refuse her consent?"

To this question his daughter replied only with laugh; and as it had
been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by his
repeating it. — had never been more at loss to make her
feelings appear what they were not. It was necessary to laugh, when she
would rather have cried. Her father had most cruelly mortified her, by
what he said of Mr. —'s indifference, and she could do nothing but
wonder at such want of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of
his seeing too _little_, she might have fancied too _much_.

Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend, as
— half expected Mr. — to do, he was able to bring —
with him to — before many days had passed after — —'s
visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. — had time to
tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat in
momentary dread, —, who wanted to be alone with —, proposed
their all walking out. It was agreed to. Mrs. — was not in the
habit of walking, — could never spare time, but the remaining five
set off together. — and —, however, soon allowed the others to
outstrip them. They lagged behind, while —, —, and —,
were to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; — was
too much afraid of him to talk; — was secretly forming
desperate resolution; and perhaps he might be doing the same.

They walked towards the —, because — wished to call upon
—; and as — saw no occasion for making it general concern,
when — left them, she went boldly on with him alone. Now was the
moment for her resolution to be executed, and, while her courage was
high, she immediately said,

"Mr. —, am very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving
relief to my own feelings, care not how much may be wounding your's.
can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor
sister. Ever since have known it, have been most anxious to
acknowledge to you how gratefully feel it. Were it known to the rest
of my family, should not have merely my own gratitude to express."

am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied —, in tone of surprise
and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in
mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. did not think Mrs.
— was so little to be trusted."

"You must not blame my aunt. —'s thoughtlessness first betrayed to
me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, could
not rest till knew the particulars. Let me thank you again and again,
in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced
you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the
sake of discovering them."

"If you _will_ thank me," he replied, "let it be for yourself alone.
That the wish of giving happiness to you, might add force to the other
inducements which led me on, shall not attempt to deny. But your
_family_ owe me nothing. Much as respect them, believe, thought
only of _you_."

— was too much embarrassed to say word. After short pause,
her companion added, "— are too generous to trifle with me. If your
feelings are still what they were last —, tell me so at once. _My_
affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence
me on this subject for ever."

— feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of
his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not
very fluently, gave him to understand, that her sentiments had undergone
so material change, since the period to which he alluded, as to make
her receive with gratitude and pleasure, his present assurances. The
happiness which this reply produced, was such as he had probably never
felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
warmly as man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had —
been able to encounter his eye, she might have seen how well the
expression of heart-felt delight, diffused over his face, became him;
but, though she could not look, she could listen, and he told her of
feelings, which, in proving of what importance she was to him, made his
affection every moment more valuable.

They walked on, without knowing in what direction. There was too much to
be thought; and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects. She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_ call on him in her return through
—, and there relate her journey to —, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with —; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter, which, in her ladyship's apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance, in the belief that
such relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from
her nephew, which _she_ had refused to give. But, unluckily for her
ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.

"It taught me to hope," said he, "as had scarcely ever allowed myself
to hope before. knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that,
had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have
acknowledged it to — —, frankly and openly."

— coloured and laughed as she replied, "—, you know enough of
my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After abusing you so
abominably to your face, could have no scruple in abusing you to all
your relations."

"What did you say of me, that did not deserve? For, though your
accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour
to you at the time, had merited the severest reproof. It was
unpardonable. cannot think of it without abhorrence."

"We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that
evening," said —. "The conduct of neither, if strictly examined,
will be irreproachable; but since then, we have both, hope, improved
in civility."

cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what
then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of
it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me. Your
reproof, so well applied, shall never forget: 'had you behaved in
more gentleman-like manner.' — were your words. You know not, you
can scarcely conceive, how they have tortured it was some
time, confess, before was reasonable enough to allow their justice."

was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an
impression. had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
way."

can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper
feeling, am sure you did. The turn of your countenance shall never
forget, as you said that could not have addressed you in any possible
way, that would induce you to accept me."

"Oh! do not repeat what then said. These recollections will not do at
all. assure you, that have long been most heartily ashamed of it."

— mentioned his letter. "Did it," said he, "did it _soon_ make you
think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its
contents?"

She explained what its effect on her had been, and how gradually all her
former prejudices had been removed.

knew," said he, "that what wrote must give you pain, but it was
necessary. hope you have destroyed the letter. There was one part
especially, the opening of it, which should dread your having the
power of reading again. can remember some expressions which might
justly make you hate me."

"The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the
preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my
opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, hope, quite so easily
changed as that implies."

"When wrote that letter," replied —, believed myself perfectly
calm and cool, but am since convinced that it was written in
dreadful bitterness of spirit."

"The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so. The
adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The feelings
of the person who wrote, and the person who received it, are now so
widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant
circumstance attending it, ought to be forgotten. You must learn some
of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
pleasure."

cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. _Your_
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
arising from them, is not of philosophy, but what is much better, of
ignorance. But with _me_, it is not so. Painful recollections will
intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled. have been
selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As
child was taught what was _right_, but was not taught to correct my
temper. was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride
and conceit. Unfortunately an only son, (for many years an only _child_)
was spoilt by my parents, who though good themselves, (my father
particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable,) allowed, encouraged,
almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing, to care for none beyond
my own family circle, to think meanly of all the rest of the world, to
_wish_ at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with
my own. Such was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such might
still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest —! What do not
owe you! You taught me lesson, hard indeed at first, but most
advantageous. By you, was properly humbled. came to you without
doubt of my reception. You shewed me how insufficient were all my
pretensions to please woman worthy of being pleased."

"Indeed had. What will you think of my vanity? believed you to be
wishing, expecting my addresses."

"My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally assure you.
never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
How you must have hated me after _that_ evening?"

"Hate you! was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take
proper direction."

am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me; when we met at
—. You blamed me for coming?"

"Your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed by you.
My conscience told me that deserved no extraordinary politeness, and
confess that did not expect to receive _more_ than my due."

"My object _then_," replied —, "was to shew you, by every civility
in my power, that was not so mean as to resent the past; and hoped
to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill opinion, by letting you
see that your reproofs had been attended to. How soon any other wishes
introduced themselves can hardly tell, but believe in about half an
hour after had seen you."

He then told her of —'s delight in her acquaintance, and of her
disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to
the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of
following her from — in quest of her sister, had been formed
before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness
there, had arisen from no other struggles than what such purpose must
comprehend.

She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful subject to
each, to be dwelt on farther.

After walking several miles in leisurely manner, and too busy to know
any thing about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that
it was time to be at home.

"What could become of Mr. — and —!" was wonder which
introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. — was delighted with
their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of
it.

"That is to say, you had given your permission. guessed as much." —
though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much
the case.

"On the evening before my going to —," said he made confession
to him, which believe ought to have made long ago. told him of
all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs,
absurd and impertinent. His surprise was great. He had never had the
slightest suspicion. told him, moreover, that believed myself
mistaken in supposing, as had done, that your sister was indifferent
to him; and as could easily perceive that his attachment to her was
unabated, felt no doubt of their happiness together."

— could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his
friend.

"Did you speak from your own observation," said she, "when you told him
that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?"

"From the former. had narrowly observed her during the two visits
which had lately made her here; and was convinced of her affection."

"— your assurance of it, suppose, carried immediate conviction to
him."

"It did. — is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious case, but
his reliance on mine, made every thing easy. was obliged to confess
one thing, which for time, and not unjustly, offended him. could not
allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months
last winter, that had known it, and purposely kept it from him. He was
angry. But his anger, am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
in any doubt of your sister's sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me
now."

— longed to observe that Mr. — had been most delightful
friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked
herself. She remembered that he had yet to learn to be laught at, and it
was rather too early to begin. In anticipating the happiness of —,
which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the
conversation till they reached the house. In the hall they parted.

"My dear —, where can you have been walking to?" was question
which — received from — as soon as she entered the room, and
from all the others when they sat down to table. She had only to say in
reply, that they had wandered about, till she was beyond her own
knowledge. She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor any thing
else, awakened suspicion of the truth.

The evening passed quietly, unmarked by any thing extraordinary. The
acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged were silent.
— was not of disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth;
and —, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that she was happy,
than _felt_ herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment,
there were other evils before her. She anticipated what would be felt in
the family when her situation became known; she was aware that no one
liked him but —; and even feared that with the others it was
_dislike_ which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.

At night she opened her heart to —. Though suspicion was very far
from — —'s general habits, she was absolutely incredulous here.

"You are joking, —. This cannot to Mr. —! No, no,
you shall not deceive me. know it to be impossible."

"This is wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on you; and
am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, am
in earnest. speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we are
engaged."

— looked at her doubtingly. "Oh, —! it cannot be. know how much
you dislike him."

"You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot. Perhaps
did not always love him so well as do now. But in such cases as these,
good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time shall ever
remember it myself."

— — still looked all amazement. — again, and more
seriously assured her of its truth.

"Good —! can it be really so! Yet now must believe you," cried
—. "My dear, dear —, do congratulate are you
certain? forgive the you quite certain that you can be
happy with him?"

"There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already, that
we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased,
—? Shall you like to have such brother?"

"Very, very much. Nothing could give either — or myself more
delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. — do you
really love him quite well enough? Oh, —! do any thing rather than
marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought
to do?"

"Oh, yes! You will only think feel _more_ than ought to do, when
tell you all."

"Why, must confess, that love him better than do —. am
afraid you will be angry."

"My dearest sister, now _be_ be serious. want to talk very seriously.
Let me know every thing that am to know, without delay. Will you tell
me how long you have loved him?"

"It has been coming on so gradually, that hardly know when it began.
But believe must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds
at —."

Another intreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the
desired effect; and she soon satisfied — by her solemn assurances of
attachment. When convinced on that article, — — had nothing
farther to wish.

"Now am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
always had value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you,
must always have esteemed him; but now, as —'s friend and your
husband, there can be only — and yourself more dear to me. But
—, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you
tell me of what passed at — and —! owe all that know
of it, to another, not to you."

— told her the motives of her secrecy. She had been unwilling to
mention —; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made
her equally avoid the name of his friend. But now she would no longer
conceal from her, his share in —'s marriage. All was acknowledged,
and half the night spent in conversation.

"Good gracious!" cried Mrs. —, as she stood at window the next
morning, "if that disagreeable Mr. — is not coming here again with
our dear —! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
coming here? had no notion but he would go shooting, or something or
other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him?
—, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in —'s
way."

— could hardly help laughing at so convenient proposal; yet
was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an
epithet.

As soon as they entered, — looked at her so expressively, and
shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information;
and he soon afterwards said aloud, "Mr. —, have you no more lanes
hereabouts in which — may lose her way again to-day?"

advise Mr. —, and —, and —," said Mrs. —, "to walk
to — — this morning. It is nice long walk, and Mr. — has
never seen the view."

"It may do very well for the others," replied Mr. —; "but am
sure it will be too much for —. Wont it, —?"

— owned that she had rather stay at home. — professed great
curiosity to see the view from the —, and — silently
consented. As she went up stairs to get ready, Mrs. — followed her,
saying,

am quite sorry, —, that you should be forced to have that
disagreeable man all to yourself. But hope you will not mind it: it is
all for —'s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to
him, except just now and then. So, do not put yourself to
inconvenience."

During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. —'s consent should be
asked in the course of the evening. — reserved to herself the
application for her mother's. She could not determine how her mother
would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur
would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man. But whether she
were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it
was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to
her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. — should hear the
first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
disapprobation.

In the evening, soon after Mr. — withdrew to the library, she saw
Mr. — rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was
extreme. She did not fear her father's opposition, but he was going to
be made unhappy, and that it should be through her means, that _she_,
his favourite child, should be distressing him by her choice, should be
filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her, was wretched
reflection, and she sat in misery till Mr. — appeared again, when,
looking at him, she was little relieved by his smile. In few minutes
he approached the table where she was sitting with —; and, while
pretending to admire her work, said in whisper, "— to your father, he
wants you in the library." She was gone directly.

Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
"—," said he, "what are you doing? Are you out of your senses, to be
accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?"

How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more
reasonable, her expressions more moderate! It would have spared her from
explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give;
but they were now necessary, and she assured him with some confusion, of
her attachment to Mr. —.

"Or in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich, to be
sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than —.
But will they make you happy?"

"Have you any other objection," said —, "than your belief of my
indifference?"

"None at all. We all know him to be proud, unpleasant sort of man; but
this would be nothing if you really liked him."

do, do like him," she replied, with tears in her eyes, love him.
Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not
know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
such terms."

"—," said her father, have given him my consent. He is the kind
of man, indeed, to whom should never dare refuse any thing, which he
condescended to ask. now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
having him. But let me advise you to think better of it. know your
disposition, —. know that you could be neither happy nor
respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband; unless you looked
up to him as superior. Your lively talents would place you in the
greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape
discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing
_you_ unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are
about."

—, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply;
and at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. — was really the
object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her
estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute certainty that
his affection was not the work of day, but had stood the test of many
months suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities, she
did conquer her father's incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.

"Well, my dear," said he, when she ceased speaking, have no more to
say. If this be the case, he deserves you. could not have parted with
you, my —, to any one less worthy."

To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. —
had voluntarily done for —. He heard her with astonishment.

"This is an evening of wonders, indeed! — so, — did every thing;
made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow's debts, and got him
his commission! So much the better. It will save me world of trouble
and economy. Had it been your uncle's doing, must and _would_ have
paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own
way. shall offer to pay him to-morrow; he will rant and storm about
his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter."

He then recollected her embarrassment few days before, on his reading
Mr. —'s letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
at last to as she quitted the room, "— any young men come
for — or —, send them in, for am quite at leisure."

—'s mind was now relieved from very heavy weight; and, after
half an hour's quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join
the others with tolerable composure. Every thing was too recent for
gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer any
thing material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity
would come in time.

When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her,
and made the important communication. Its effect was most
extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. — sat quite still, and
unable to utter syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes, that
she could comprehend what she heard; though not in general backward to
credit what was for the advantage of her family, or that came in the
shape of lover to any of them. She began at length to recover, to
fidget about in her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless
herself.

"Good gracious! — bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. —! Who would
have thought it! — is it really true? Oh! my sweetest —! how rich
and how great you will be! What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages
you will have! —'s is nothing to at all. am so
happy. Such charming handsome! so my
dear —! pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before.
hope he will overlook it. —ar, dear —. house in town! Every thing
that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand year! Oh,
—! What will become of me. shall go distracted."

This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted: and
—, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself,
soon went away. But before she had been three minutes in her own room,
her mother followed her.

"My dearest child," she cried, can think of nothing else! Ten
thousand year, and very likely more! 'Tis as good as —! —
special licence. You must and shall be married by special licence. But
my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. — is particularly fond of,
that may have it to-morrow."

This was sad omen of what her mother's behaviour to the gentleman
himself might be; and — found, that though in the certain
possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations'
consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow
passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs. — luckily stood
in such awe of her intended that she ventured not to speak
to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark
her deference for his opinion.

— had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get
acquainted with him; and Mr. — soon assured her that he was rising
every hour in his esteem.

admire all my three highly," said he. "—, perhaps,
is my favourite; but think shall like _your_ husband quite as well
as —'s."

—'s spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted Mr.
— to account for his having ever fallen in love with her. "How could
you begin?" said she. can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
you had once made beginning; but what could set you off in the first
place?"

cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which
laid the foundation. It is too long ago. was in the middle before
knew that _had_ begun."

"My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my behaviour
to _you_ was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and never spoke
to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not. Now be sincere;
did you admire me for my impertinence?"

"You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little less.
The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious
attention. You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking
and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone. roused, and
interested you, because was so unlike _them_. Had you not been really
amiable you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you
took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and
in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
courted you. There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it;
and really, all things considered, begin to think it perfectly
reasonable. To be sure, you knew no actual good of nobody thinks
of _that_ when they fall in love."

"Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to —, while she was
ill at —?"

"—arest —! who could have done less for her? But make virtue of it
by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are
to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me
to find occasions for teazing and quarrelling with you as often as may
be; and shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling
to come to the point at last. What made you so shy of me, when you first
called, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you called, did
you look as if you did not care about me?"

"How unlucky that you should have reasonable answer to give, and that
should be so reasonable as to admit it! But wonder how long you
_would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself. wonder when
you _would_ have spoken, if had not asked you! My resolution of
thanking you for your kindness to — had certainly great effect. _Too
much_, am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
springs from breach of promise, for ought not to have mentioned the
subject? This will never do."

"You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair. —
—'s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us, were the means of
removing all my doubts. am not indebted for my present happiness to
your eager desire of expressing your gratitude. was not in humour to
wait for any opening of your's. My aunt's intelligence had given me
hope, and was determined at once to know every thing."

"— — has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy,
for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down to
— for? Was it merely to ride to — and be embarrassed?
or had you intended any more serious consequence?"

"My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if could, whether
might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what avowed to
myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to —,
and if she were, to make the confession to him which have since made."

"Shall you ever have courage to announce to — —, what is to
befall her?"

am more likely to want time than courage, —. But it ought to
be done, and if you will give me sheet of paper, it shall be done
directly."

"— if had not letter to write myself, might sit by you, and
admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did. But
have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected."

From an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with Mr. —
had been over-rated, — had never yet answered Mrs. —'s
long letter, but now, having _that_ to communicate which she knew would
be most welcome, she was almost ashamed to find, that her uncle and aunt
had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as
follows:

would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as ought to have
done, for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of particulars; but
to say the truth, was too cross to write. You supposed more than
really existed. But _now_ suppose as much as you chuse; give
loose to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible
flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me
actually married, you cannot greatly err. You must write again very
soon, and praise him great deal more than you did in your last.
thank you, again and again, for not going to the —. How could
be so silly as to wish it! Your idea of the ponies is delightful.
We will go round the — every day. am the happiest creature in
the world. Perhaps other people have said so before, but not one
with such justice. am happier even than —; she only smiles,
laugh. Mr. — sends you all the love in the world, that he can
spare from me. You are all to come to — at —.

Mr. —'s letter to — —, was in different style; and
still different from either, was what Mr. — sent to Mr. —, in
reply to his last.

must trouble you once more for congratulations. — will
soon be the wife of Mr. —. Console — — as well as
you can. But, if were you, would stand by the nephew. He has
more to give.

— —'s congratulations to her brother, on his approaching
marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere. She wrote even
to — on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her
former professions of regard. — was not deceived, but she was
affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing
her much kinder answer than she knew was deserved.

The joy which — — expressed on receiving similar information, was
as sincere as her brother's in sending it. Four sides of paper were
insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of
being loved by her sister.

Before any answer could arrive from Mr. —, or any congratulations
to —, from his wife, the — family heard that the
— were come themselves to — lodge. The reason of this sudden
removal was soon evident. — — had been rendered so
exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephew's letter, that
—, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till
the storm was blown over. At such moment, the arrival of her friend
was sincere pleasure to —, though in the course of their
meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she
saw Mr. — exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her
husband. He bore it however with admirable calmness. He could even
listen to — — —, when he complimented him on carrying away
the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all
meeting frequently at —. James's, with very decent composure. If he did
shrug his shoulders, it was not till — — was out of sight.

Mrs. —'s vulgarity was another, and perhaps greater tax on his
forbearance; and though Mrs. —, as well as her sister, stood in
too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which —'s good
humour encouraged, yet, whenever she _did_ speak, she must be vulgar.
Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all
likely to make her more elegant. — did all she could, to shield
him from the frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to keep him
to herself, and to those of her family with whom he might converse
without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings arising
from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure, it
added to the hope of the future; and she looked forward with delight to
the time when they should be removed from society so little pleasing to
either, to all the comfort and elegance of their family party at
—.

Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. — got
rid of her two most deserving daughters. With what delighted pride she
afterwards visited Mrs. — and talked of Mrs. — may be guessed.
wish could say, for the sake of her family, that the accomplishment
of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many of her children,
produced so happy an effect as to make her sensible, amiable,
well-informed woman for the rest of her life; though perhaps it was
lucky for her husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in
so unusual form, that she still was occasionally nervous and
invariably silly.

Mr. — missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her
drew him oftener from home than any thing else could do. He delighted in
going to —, especially when he was least expected.

Mr. — and — remained at — only twelvemonth. So near
vicinity to her mother and — relations was not desirable even to
_his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart. The darling wish of his
sisters was then gratified; he bought an estate in neighbouring county
to —, and — and —, in addition to every other source
of happiness, were within thirty miles of each other.

—, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with
her two elder sisters. In society so superior to what she had generally
known, her improvement was great. She was not of so ungovernable
temper as —, and, removed from the influence of —'s example, she
became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less
ignorant, and less insipid. From the farther disadvantage of —'s
society she was of course carefully kept, and though Mrs. —
frequently invited her to come and stay with her, with the promise of
balls and young men, her father would never consent to her going.

— was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily
drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs. —'s being quite
unable to sit alone. — was obliged to mix more with the world, but
she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no
longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters' beauty and her own,
it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without
much reluctance.

As for — and —, their characters suffered no revolution from
the marriage of her sisters. He bore with philosophy the conviction that
— must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude
and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every
thing, was not wholly without hope that — might yet be prevailed on
to make his fortune. The congratulatory letter which — received
from — on her marriage, explained to her that, by his wife at least,
if not by himself, such hope was cherished. The letter was to this
effect:

wish you joy. If you love Mr. — half as well as do my dear
—, you must be very happy. It is great comfort to have you
so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, hope you will
think of us. am sure — would like place at court very
much, and do not think we shall have quite money enough to live
upon without some help. Any place would do, of about three or four
hundred year; but, however, do not speak to Mr. — about it,
if you had rather not.

As it happened that — had _much_ rather not, she endeavoured in
her answer to put an end to every intreaty and expectation of the kind.
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice
of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she
frequently sent them. It had always been evident to her that such an
income as theirs, under the direction of two persons so extravagant in
their wants, and heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to
their support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either — or
herself were sure of being applied to, for some little assistance
towards discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even when the
restoration of peace dismissed them to home, was unsettled in the
extreme. They were always moving from place to place in quest of cheap
situation, and always spending more than they ought. His affection for
her soon sunk into indifference; her's lasted little longer; and in
spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to
reputation which her marriage had given her.

Though — could never receive _him_ at —, yet, for
—'s sake, he assisted him farther in his profession. — was
occasionally visitor there, when her husband was gone to enjoy himself
in — or —; and with the — they both of them frequently
staid so long, that even —'s good humour was overcome, and he
proceeded so far as to _talk_ of giving them hint to be gone.

— — was very deeply mortified by —'s marriage; but as she
thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at —, she
dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of —, almost as
attentive to — as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility
to —.

— was now —'s home; and the attachment of the sisters
was exactly what — had hoped to see. They were able to love each
other, even as well as they intended. — had the highest opinion
in the world of —; though at first she often listened with an
astonishment bordering on alarm, at her lively, sportive, manner of
talking to her brother. He, who had always inspired in herself respect
which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open
pleasantry. Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in
her way. By —'s instructions she began to comprehend that
woman may take liberties with her husband, which brother will not
always allow in sister more than ten years younger than himself.

— — was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew;
and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character, in
her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him
language so very abusive, especially of —, that for some time
all intercourse was at an end. But at length, by —'s persuasion,
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek reconciliation;
and, after little farther resistance on the part of his aunt, her
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait on
them at —, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
received, not merely from the presence of such mistress, but the
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.

With the —, they were always on the most intimate terms. —,
as well as —, really loved them; and they were both ever
sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing
her into —, had been the means of uniting them.
